Even though I relied on these OTAAS to grow my business and they were amazing and they're simple to use, I understand that to have a healthy long-term business sustainable time, I had to have control on my bookings on my traffic and my properties and if something happens because we had a property being the listed and fairly in my opinion, I was able to get it back up after like 3 months of challenging the OTAA. In the meantime, we got a few direct bookings and other platforms I haven't used before like Booking.com. And that was good because, you know, you get the listed of the one of the big platforms. It's like it's a death sentence for a lot of people. It's like you lost your investment like everything's gone. And by building this, we were able to, oh, look, we're getting Google vacation rental bookings. We're getting direct bookings. Before we bring on our guest, I wanted to talk just a little bit about something that I've been hearing a lot from host. I keep on hearing the same thing. I know my website isn't converting, but I can't afford $8,000 on an agency to rebuild it. Here's the thing. You're letting all these marketing strategies, you're driving traffic, and you're putting it all to work. But if your site isn't really built to convert, you're basically lighting your energy and money on fire. And even if you could afford an agency build, every time you want to test something or make a change, you're having to pay them again. You can't iterate. You can't test. And you really can't improve on things. You don't need a custom $10,000 website to get the conversion rates that really matter. You just need the right platform. That's why I built Craft Stays. It's purpose-built for short-term rentals and designed from the ground up to help you drive more direct bookings. You can finally turn that traffic into bookings. You can keep on testing and improving as you learn. You can make changes all on the platform. You don't need to learn something new. So, if you need some help or you want to get started, go ahead and go to craftastdays.co and start your free trial. Now, let's bring on our guest and dive deep into hospitality and marketing. Federico, welcome to the show. >> Thanks, man. I'm excited to be here. I know we've been trying to schedule this for a while and finally we made it happen. >> Yeah. Yes. It's been it's been a long while. I think on both parts both are mine. So, >> for what it's worth, the last one was my fault. Um, so we do I think both of us actually a lot of the folks in the industry actually live pretty busy lives. So I'm not surprised uh that some of these times we we get things uh rescheduled. >> Things get crazy uh in this industry. Never at moment. >> Yeah. Never a dull moment. For sure. For sure. >> U we met at Level Up. I think you were probably the tallest guy I saw at Level Up for that specifically that conference. Um, being a male there and being the tallest male there, you definitely stuck out like a like a nail there. >> I know. I know. But I'm used to it's been all my life like that. But I know it's weird and it's pretty funny as well. I know people look at me like this. I'm not used to looking at people in the eyes when I'm standing up or less like looking up. So, it's it's pretty funny when I see someone is my height or taller. I'm 66, I think. At least I have I use meters. I'm still like I'm trying to remember fits and inches and all that, but I think I'm 66. >> Yeah, that's still pretty tall. Um I was uh I saw Justin last last week and I just realized that you actually had a picture with Justin. You guys were like >> Yeah. >> Ne like you're basically the same height and I feel so small next to Justin every time I'm next to him. >> Yeah. Where where do you see him? >> Was he at VR Nation? Yes, he was at VR Nation and he was also at the STR hospitality summit as well too. >> Nice. Nice. Yeah, Justin, I did the certification with uh we got along pretty well because I did the the uh safety certification. I've been just praising his teaching and you know, spreading the world the the word the the gospel of safety, you know, my properties and other people. And uh I love what he's doing. So, shout out to to Justin. Great guy. And he's on a mission and he's doing something incredible for the industry. >> You know what? You're you're absolutely right. I I I think you're you're reminding me that like I actually should bring him on to the show because >> I think that like Justin, he's pretty unique where he's talking about a topic that no one wants to talk about. >> No one wants to talk about and he has so much passion in it. >> Yeah. And I'm going to tell you something. Uh when I did a certification, I started talking to all my clients because this is something that you don't know what you don't know, right? Um we're talking about the safety certification for short-term rentals. I'm certified as a short-term rental safety inspector. Just for anybody wondering what we're talking about, I did a certification. I started reaching out to all my clients like, "Hey, we need to do this, this, this, this." Uh, you know, moving the grills and putting fire extinguishers and all these. I was about to take on one of uh Sarah Glidewell's uh properties from the cars in Michigan. We were doing the on boarding. I still wasn't managing the property. I told her, "Get the fire extinguishers." She got them. three days later grill fire in an enclosed area >> and that fire essentially saved the house. >> Uh but still they were not doing everything I was saying until Justin came last year and he was this year. I didn't get to see him. I was briefly in the mission short rental conference. >> Uh and he did his speech and and then they were like okay we're doing everything you say. It's like okay we're finally moving the grill out from there and all that the stuff. Um but yeah he he's incredible and I really suggest he has a lot of like webinars and things out there that you can watch. Um, but that was the the one thing coming. You know, I'm from Argentina. I moved to America two and a half years ago. And I just knew two things moving to America. I don't want to go to jail for missing my taxes and I don't want to get sued. And, you know, I was being careful and scared about short-term rental as well if something happens. And you know being having your safety checklist in place is a number one thing to be protected because even if you have your insurance if you have a dead trap in your house and your guest uh you know get hurt or something worse uh it's going to be on you even if you have insurance right. >> Yeah. >> I don't want to scare anybody. Just go there learn and do what you got to do. >> I mean honestly there's a there's probably a lot lots of different levels on it and yeah >> I feel like on my side my properties are pretty safe. We have one that's a brand new build and like the standards are pretty high on new builds and we're all like both my both markets that were in Branson and in the Smoky Mountains were pretty they're pretty well regulated where fire inspection happens every year in Branson. We had the health inspection. They actually test our our hot tub waters. So like it's pretty stringent and the checklist that they actually go through is actually pretty pretty thick. I wish every everybody every place will be like that. >> And honestly that that's kind of what I like want to talk about like and want to get to is like I actually think that as the industry is going through so much scrutiny right now and people are trying to ban short-term rentals. I think that what's going to end up happening and we talked about this a lot at the Sierra Hospitality Summit is that these regulations are happening because there's this lack of standards. There's a lack of quality bar there. And I think that when folks when hosts and property managers really try to one band together to talk about these these regulations together as a group and two when we come up with standards where we say if we're operating a short-term rental we should be doing these x y or z things like we're just being responsible homeowners are being responsible >> neighborhoods as well too like neighbors >> and I think that when when that starts to happen we should expect to see the regulations start to pull back or at least weed out the folks that are not doing these like these quality standards >> and the permits are only going to be available to those that really meet that. And I think that that's kind of where we're probably headed like two three years down the road. >> I agree 100% with you. I think that's going to be mostly in like large areas or high tourist, you know, dependent areas. The other problem is that you have a lot of like little bit, you know, townships, counties and stuff like that. that they don't even know. They don't even care. And they're like, "Oh, I'm going to limit your occupancy on the septic tank size." Like, dude, I can pump it twice in a year. That's not a problem. I don't want my, you know, yard being filled with um dark water. But it's like just getting across and explaining to your community and showing what you can do to keep your place safe because at the end of the day, yeah, anyone can open short rental on Airbnb. Um, you know, listing Airbnb is pretty like low barrier to entry level. Uh, and that's the problem. And I the fact that Airbnb doesn't mandate you to have uh smoke detectors and those type of things like again coming from Argentina every winter we see a lot of this for carbon monoxide for space heaters being plugged in in extension core where the gauge of the wire is not taken off and stuff like that. So yeah, it's just something that I I hope that it becomes an industry standard. But uh yeah, we're deating a little bit from direct bookings, but I think it's a super important topic for people. >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think that to kind of weed that back into it is that like I think that like as the we're probably in this like really big growth period right now in the industry where we went through this big wave a lot of small little hosts started getting into the industry especially during the beginning of the pandemic when there's this big gold rush into it >> and there was that lack of standards there and Airbnb has been on the rise where year after year they're performing really well and they're getting a big sizable market share but at the same time then the standards hasn't really like caught up at all and I think we're starting to see people like Justin Ford people or organizations like rent responsibility like these types of organizations are starting to try to bring things together and trying to make a little bit order >> and to some the order feels uncomfortable like who wants to talk to Justin Ford about like like risk but the folks that are talking to them like yourself >> um those are the folks that are spearheading kind where we should be taking in the industry and how we should be looking at things. So, I think that there will be a bit of a shift there. It's going to be uncomfortable for a lot of folks, but like once you're in it, it's actually not that bad. For for me, all my properties have always been in vacation rental markets. I've always had regulations. I've always had inspections. >> And because of that, it's no big deal. Like, if I if I buy when we bought our second property, I knew our checklist items. I knew where I needed to put my extinguishers. I knew like I needed a pool alarm. I needed to have sensors on the doors. >> Uh like all these different things we knew about because we've already kind of established ourselves in in that area and it's no big deal for us. Uh it's another thing that we need to do but it's the right thing to do. >> Yeah. No, I'm coming from a different background. I mean I started hosting in 2018 in my spare bedroom in Wenocidis and it was like the original kind of like Airbnb idea of you know I have an extra bedroom. I need to, you know, pay the bills and I live I used to live in a pretty popular touristy nice area. I was like, "Okay, let's get some people." And the first people that we got was like a Brazilian couple and he talked to us and was looking for vegetarian places in Buenocidis, which is kind of like odd. And then the second girl came and stayed for like two months and we were hanging out and being friends and all of that. And you know, I started from that background and growing from there. It's just been, you know, professionalizing something. It was just a side gig, a hobby, and a way to make an extra couple of bucks at the end of month to pay the bills, honestly. So, >> yeah. I mean, you I mean, you use the word like professionalizing that like I think that's that's what we're going through right now. Yeah. >> Um, and maybe like this is actually a good segue and probably I should have done this earlier, but introducing you on to the show, give our listeners a bit of context on who who this 6'6 person is. >> Yeah. So uh a little bit of my background and myself. So as I mentioned well fed emer people call me fed feed d e um and yeah I I started you know I worked in the around the travel industry my entire life like when I was 18 we moved to a touristy village in Argentina. Uh then I moved back to the big city. I got a job at um one of the big airlines from the US based in Argentina in the call center. Did that for a year and then there was opportunity to apply for being a trainer to travel around the world doing training on the call centers and sometimes airports and ticket offices. got a job and spent 10 years traveling around the world and teaching people how to you know do customer service, how to handle operations, loss packs, revenue management and all those type of things that you know gave me I feel the skills from my personal experience traveling and um the content and things I learned in the business in at the company to apply into a short-term rental. around 2020 20 um yeah before co was 2020 right so 2019 I was trying to move to the US to to get a job in headquarters they wanted to bring me because love like I I was pre-awwarded in you know a company of 120,000 people I got one of the like employee of the year award that they give to 100 people and stuff like that I was doing pretty well but I didn't have my college degree and they're like okay we're going to give you an H1 B1B so I know this that's a big topic it was a big topic a couple months ago uh because you don't have a college degree so we justify, you know, why we're giving the job to someone from Argentina if you can't prove in the papers that you're skilled even though you are. And that shattered my dreams. Honestly, that was a tough moment for myself. I was like, "Okay, what do I do now?" Because it's like I have a ceiling here like there's not a lot of like growth in the company in Argentina. Argentina was going through a lot of difficult like economical really tough economical situation and then uh COVID happens. My dad passed during that time and now I'm in charge of my family. So, it's like really tough. So right around the time so like literally the month that my my dad passed over month before I started as a BA myself helping people in the US. I had a friend from headquarters who have friends he was investing in in real estate and his friends were doing arbitragees of time shares. And basically what they were doing they were buying this time share from Walmart that they let you book or sell their available inventory last minute. So they had like 5600 listings and these five six00 listings you had to update the calendars and then hand in the reservations and make sure that the it was available in the website when they confirmed because then you can cancel and all of this. So it was pretty interesting. I started to learn a lot about how Airbnb works, different tools on Airbnb, building automations, optimizing this whole process. And then with this friend, we were like, "Okay, you're good at this. I want to keep investing. Let's start picking an arbitrage in the US." He was in in in Texas. We picked one arbitrage. I started managing from from Argentina. We started growing. We had five arbitrageages and we started taking clients and we started growing like this management company. We were around 25 30 properties and in that time my wife she happens to pretty luckily her mom grew up in America. So she had she's an American citizen even though she never lived in America. So around 2020 around everything like January 2021 after everything happened with my dad and all of that I applied for my green card but because of COVID everything was delayed so it took two years. In October September 2023 I went to the embassy for to talk to council for my interview. They approved me. Happiest day of my life. One of the happiest day of my life. And then we're going to move in February. In November we're on a plane already moving to to the US. I had a $1,000 in my pocket. We landed in Texas with in Miami with my two dogs and a cat. Drove all the way to Texas and then started life over there. Continue growing the management company. And then at some point I decided to part ways with my partner just for different, you know, just goals and vision on what good properties are and stuff like that and just what type of properties we wanted to manage. And I was already managing Sarah from the carals. If you heard about the car was pretty popular in the space, her properties in forward and she had her mission properties I was talking about before. So she gave me those properties and then I started managing hearing apps in New York from good friends and that was August 20 and we're now 25 May 25 almost two years managing 75 properties. I have equity in a couple of properties here in the in in Abson, New York and uh boutique hotel with five rooms about to open a bar and growing the business. So yeah, living the American dream. >> Wow, dude. That's that's that's amazing. So you went from first like having your W2 corporate job. Uh I don't actually I don't know if you call it W2 there. >> Yeah, it's a W2. Yeah, it's exactly that. >> Yeah. But living in the corporate world and you had the ambitions of coming here to the states, >> being sponsored by your employer, the airline, and being denied your H1B because of the credentials. Um, but it sound like that didn't really stop you. Like you still had the ambitions of coming to coming to America and I think maybe part serendipity, part like your grit, like it just it just happened with that perseverance there. >> Yeah. No, I put that in my mind. and knew it it was going to happen somehow, you know. Yeah, it was tough. Like even getting the green the green card it was tough because like my wife never lived in America and to apply to to a green card like the one that I got for being married basically like she was like kind of sponsoring me being American but she didn't have like a single tax return to show that she can support me right it's like okay what is your your address in the US like I don't have address in the US so we got you had to have to get an attorney and she took your perspective right and this is why I love to to to talk about you know the American dream and how much I appreciate this country even though you know I know a lot of people are right now are afraid and I want to get into politics if you like it or not whatever is going on I just know that a lot of people are like concerned I will choose America over any other place in the world because the opportunities the people the the people who moved here and founded this country you know they came from you know it was wild like it's similar to Argentina my my my my ancestors were they also came from Europe and they were trying to find a better life and that's what I'm doing now is just trying to find a better life and here you have no idea how easy things are right is if you didn't haven't lived abroad I was telling my friends I just bought uh 911 Jeep because Sar and Ethan they got one and they're like you need to get one. And I got a Jeep the other day on Monday and just the process of going to a person signing a paper going to the DMV full you have a private place you pay 100 bucks and they do it for you. The convenience that you have in this country that doesn't exist like doing this like buying a car in other countries may take you like few days a week maybe a month and the amount of taxes you need to pay is incredible. opening a business. I tell my friends, "Dude, I just opened a new LLC. Took me three days." Sent an email, got my data, one week, have the papers, start a new business. It's just like if you come here and you come and grind and you are here, you know, and you blend to to to the country here to collaborate and and do things better. It's a fantastic place to be and I'm pretty happy to be here. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um Yeah. I I remember back in the early 2010s, we I went through a similar process with one of our actually I was at my first ever startup and we were working with some offshore engineers and phenomenal people, hard hardworking people and they helped us launch my first ever startup. >> Mhm. >> And we ended up bringing them on board and we actually brought them to the states to work with them and we actually love working with them. They want to stay in America and we're like, "Okay, let's figure out how this happen, how to make this happen." That was a really a long process of going through getting their visas, getting their green cards, but like now they're US citizens. They own houses of their own, their own property, multiple properties of their own, and they are living that American dream. And it's but it wasn't easy. Like it's a hard thing because on his side, I remember he had to go back home and he wasn't sure whether or not he was able to enter back into the states and it took him six months. So he was working remotely for a very long time and there's a lot of uncertainty in that whole entire process. So I can I can empathize when you're kind of walking through the things that you had to go through just how much challenges there is. It >> it is tough but it builds character. That's what I think. I actually pretty funny because I was talking to a new client. I just launched as a service for revenue management uh which is one of my areas I I love and I'm pretty pretty good at and I was talking to him and he's from Venezuela, right? And also same same thing he left like Argentina went to a similar proc through a similar process of like you know uh challenges in the macro level and micro micro micro level as well like pretty difficult economical situations and we were talking about that he just build character because he was saying that how he started a property in a place that was highly regulated and everyone was telling him not to do it and he was like no I'm going to do it because it's going to be great like yeah we're talking about that it's like we come from a hard background like this and it's not that that that that I grew up like poor or anything like I don't want to say that but it's just a different country to do a different difficult country to do things to make things happen where there's always a stop uh a barrier to everything that you want to do. So you learn how to navigate those things. And that's why when everybody right now is super worried about the economy, what's happening and all this and we were joking with this guys like listen we grew up with this. We know what this is. It's just people are are scared because things are changing. It's not people are not going to book reservations. It's not people are not going to travel. People are waiting to see what's going to happen. And for us like is it's common. But for the US it's just like new and is scary. But uh for us like we thrive in this environment honestly. But what I was saying before is like you know just to give you some context like my W2 I spend there two 10 years and because of inflation inflation was 110% a year I was making 700 bucks a month and I had like a you know kind of like an important not supervisor role type of thing 10 years of seniority and that was a good salary in Argentina and when I had to pay $5,000 to the uh attorney to help me with the visa because of the the green card because of this situation that my wife and I live in America I was like where do I get this money out and just by getting started with the short-term rentals that helped me paid for the attorney, right? Um, so yeah, it was a whole thing. But man, the day I got the the the was approved, I literally I couldn't sleep for days. I was like just going to bed and like talking to myself like my my mother-in-law's birthday and this day that the these facts that may ask me of my marriage, which is real, but I didn't remember every single detail of my my wife's family and they gave me the approval. jump in the car. I put Living in America by James Brown blasted on the car. Got home, passed out for eight hours. Seriously, I was so stressed, but uh worked. >> You're the probably the best sleep you the best sleep you had in your life with that day. >> Have no idea. But yeah, so that's a little bit about myself and how I got here where I'm at today. >> What was the hardest part in the whole entire journey? >> Oh man, I I I think that certainty honestly. It was just the the the the the being afraid of not getting the beast and all the plans I was building, you know. It's just falling falling apart because I was like, "Okay, we have a goal. We know what we need to do and I want to do it the right way, you know." And we were like, "Oh, you can fly there." And then do an adjustment. No, I don't want to do that. I want to do it the right way. And for that, I had to be patient, which I'm not a patient person. High DHD, you know, I want things now. I want things fast. And this two years, two years of waiting, you know, it was extremely challenging. leaving my 9 to5 my my daughter was really challenging because I had an amazing relationship. I was building a career even though I didn't have the chance to move to to to the US. So there are a lot of like you know leap of faiths and trust in the process and trusting myself and having the incredible support of my wife and and my family and their family and our friends to say yeah you go you get it you know we know that we trust on you and you're going to do it. Yeah, it's uh it's a lot of like corlaries with like just even starting a business and entrepreneurship as well too. Like the thing that I've learned, this is my first time being the founder of a company and the experiences before these were like six other startups, but I didn't have I didn't own that responsibility of all the employees under me and where if the company went south, I can find another job. Like with this >> it's very different because you have so many people that rely on you that the weight is just so much more when what you said about like the uncertainty like I think of like on honestly when we take these big leaps it's that it's really not the task and the things that you need to execute on that are the all all the hard parts. It's really trying to mentally get through it all. That to me is probably the most challenging of of like being an entrepreneur >> 100%. It's like that that burden and then especially when dealing with real estate something I always tell to my team and even to my clients. I I I repeat this all the time just to keep it you know it's it's kind of like um part of our so my mission statement you know is like to to provide peace of mind to my to the owners and a fivestar state to my clients to to my guests. But that comes from a deeper philosophy that I have which is we are dealing with two clients right uh doing property management and dealing with again the homeowner and the guest both of them are trusting with us some of the most valuable things because a homeowner is trusting you with a house and normally a house is tends to be one of the most expensive things you lifetime unless you buy like a project or something like that right uh many times it's like their life investment is their you know retirement these are you know kids in heritage or something like that and then people taking out your property they're trusting you with your time and you cannot give back time that's that's one thing that you know actually I believe is the most val thing anyone has is time you know it's a huge responsibility that we have so when someone is not having a good time or we are messing up you know we mess up sometimes even though we try not to it's just part of doing business especially in in the travel industry where there's so many disruptions and things out your control you know it's just like it's a bit responsibility. It's like it is uh you got to mentally prepare for that when you're dealing and I'm and I know listen I'm not dealing with lives or I'm not a doctor. I know they higher responsibility but still I feel it's a big responsibility that we have to live up to expectations and and protecting people's time and people property. So >> yeah, I love that. I love the the framing that you have and the kind of like how you distilled this back to your team there. Um, so you have, let me see if I got this right. You're managing 75 properties. You have a boutique hotel with five doors. You're starting a bar. Did I say I hear that? >> Yeah, I'm opening a bar there. So, >> yeah, I'm managing I have my the map back here. So, we have like properties in like 16 different states. Uh, I have a pretty, you know, like organic growth just word of mouth and referrals and people from Instagram and the cars and square. I've been referring people and clients happy with my services. So, I just been, you know, grabbing properties and people like reach out and if the property checks the boxes of being a nice property and a good client willing to, you know, listen to my suggestions on how to make the space good or improve if we need to improve or what to do on the price and all of that. We've been taking them. Now, we're focusing a little bit more in New York, Michigan, and Colorado and maybe looking at other markets. But still, if I have someone from like our online community that needs help and they want management, I jump in. Um but yeah and then we in in absent with Scalar Mari and Sar Nathan they we've been doing this um projects where we find properties um and S raises capital and then Scalati they do the whole um purchase renovation design and then they hand it over for me to manage. I have a piece of equity in those properties. is incredible as well. And in all that process, we just acquire um a launch a couple months ago is a five- bedroomedroom in here in Hart, New York, which is in Catskills. Uh it's called the book village in because it's the book village. Uh where the Hart is like there are a bunch of uh bookstores. Uh and it has a bar restaurant and I always been passionate about food especially trolling so much. I, you know, love Anthony Berdane, read all his books. And growing up since I was a little, I was always passionate about food. Like my father's family love eating and going out and I was, you know, my my grandpa my grandfather was like super excited. I will eat like snails and frogs and all that when I was like five. So I just grew up around food and loving food and and traveling and going, you know, and it's like, okay, this is stressing opening a restaurant. It's like, you know, they tend to fail pretty quickly, but I know how to feel feel people nice. I know how to do business and I put all my passion and hard work into things. So, yeah, aiming to launch somewhere in the summer and this is it's 10 minutes from where I live. So, it's it's going to be fun. >> Yeah. So, you have you have a pretty full plate now. Like, what's your you've already gone through some pretty big transformations now. Like, what are you excited about? Like, what do you want to accomplish? Um, what's that big dream that you have? >> Oh, man. You know, it's funny because uh today I told you I don't remember if we talked about this in in the podcast, but I said I bought this uh 911 Jeep um on Monday uh because they they got one. I was like, "You need to get one." And you know, everybody it's like we're a gang now. Um and I went to a hotel uh and I parked it there. I took a photo. I look like I'm living in a beautiful place. I have this project. I have fun car which is all right. It's like it's rusty, old, but it's, you know, it's just a convertible. I always want to have a convertible to uh drive around. It's like uh I'm so happy right now. It's like, okay. But still, I know I want to grow. So, kind like my goals is to to continue building this in a way that I can keep supporting um you know, my team um which I I'm a little bit burnt out of that. So, I'm bringing someone into my management company to help me with dealing with the team and that the business can run itself without me being involved in like all the nitty-gritty which I've been working towards that for a long time and you know we're making steps but still things that need to be involved uh but while making sure that we don't decrease the quality of work we don't decrease you know the the client's perspective of what we do and and that we continue being successful. I don't want, you know, I don't want to say one day, okay, this is running automatically on autopilot and stepping out and then it falls apart. So, I'm always going to be somehow involved, but I want to have like again my management company. Now, we're doing revenue management services as another business, the bar. Um, and then yeah, just investing in some properties like that's something I started doing when I moved here. Uh, we have two properties in Texas. the one that I'm at right now that we bought as a primary home. Uh, but I want to start at some point pouring time and and capital into my own projects because I also like really enjoy doing that, but I don't have the time to really go and work in a whole house right now by myself. Yeah, it you you mentioned a lot of like points that that I really love is your it seems like your ambitions are not necessarily like oh we now have 75 drawers let's get to 250 and like that big door count that I think like a lot of a lot of folks in the industry was talking about pretty big in the last two years >> and now kind of like that actually has shifted where it's actually not about more doors. It's really about like figuring out like what the right balance of life is and um >> and the quality of properties as well. I can get a I can get 200 300 doors if they make 15 to 30,000 a year. I don't want to do that. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you also mentioned like bringing other people into your team where you get to be able to like pull yourself back a little bit and re-evaluate and it like I don't know our listeners here with if you're part of the STR book club and and the book that we're reading right now which is like buy back your time by by Dan Martell. Um, like that's a big thing about like what he preaches is really like it's not necessarily always about growth, growth, growth, but like what the real wealth is is if you're able to step out from your business and be able to still run your business is still autonomously able to grow and you're able to spend your time on other things. That's actually what I hear more often now which makes me feel really good where there is a sustainable growth happening within the industry. >> Yeah. And and you know it's also about character because for me it's hard like because I'm always in the growth mindset of everything that I do. I like to grind like to go deep in everything that I do. Um but I remember last year there was a point again this company it's going to be two years in August. So sometime last year I was like you know working remember I was like handling like a lot of putting off a lot of fires and pretty stress and everything. It's like what are you even like trying to achieve here, right? It's like okay, what what is the goal? What is the end game here, right? And then I put a number. I say, okay, definitely I want to, you know, hit a million dollars. That's something that I love to do. Being in America, got a million dollars in in revenue. Perfect. Um, and then I said that that, you know, that okay, let's break it down. What does it mean in properties? Does it mean in team? What does it mean in this, this, and that? And we're working towards that. I mean, I think we're in a good path and we're going to get there at some point, not too far. um because we have pretty successful first year and second year is coming pretty well. Um, and yeah, and that that gave me perspective on that. At the end of the day, yeah, it's just like, you know, making sure that I'm building something I enjoy and you know, slowly prioritizing because I had prioritized myself and, you know, my wife and and my lifestyle for a while because I I feel like my 20s to 30s, I spend that time. I was working at the airlines, the industry. I was traveling a lot for work and then I had my free tickets. I was like I flew over a million miles. I was like maxing my credit card and flying and traveling and doing all of that. And then I moved from that to I don't want to be broke. I want to grind. I want to do all this. And there was a lot of, you know, mental and physical uh effort into moving here, starting this business and doing that. And I just, you know, I just want to have a simple life. I just want to have fun. I want to be, you know, be comfortable not having to worry about money and make it to the end of the month and growing what I have and making sure things I have don't fall apart and enjoy the process and that's kind of like the mindset they're trying to build right now. But >> yeah, it sounds like it's a there's a shift towards balance now that's happening within your life. >> Yeah. Yeah. Because I know and and I have a it's funny, you know, how how you have like certain wakeup calls. Um I was like scrolling I I you know I like to to to hear all these people like Gara Pia and Horman all these like health guys. Um I I think they have some interesting things to say and I think it was Pia was saying you know oh B2 max is like number one um longevity marker that you can track to know if you're going to live a long life. And I got an Apple Watch a couple months ago and I look at it and oh it tracks B2 max. Let's see how it is. Oh it's below average. It's like crap, that's not good. Like, and that's a really bad thing. And I say, "Okay, I need to get healthy. I need to start investing in myself." And I started investing like, you know, into building in my basement. I got like a little cheap sauna and cold plunge and exercising and um eating healthy. And I did a few blood works and all of that. And I realized, okay, I can do better. I It's crazy. I lost like literally I didn't tell everybody I lost like 15 pounds in the last three weeks. So, I'm feeling well, right? just like using JPT. Uh I know we're talking about AI before. It's like I just put all my blood works and everything and the people that I follow on Jupit like build me a plan for everything I need to do. It's working out. I mean I'm feeling great. I'm feeling energized and I feel uh and I'm losing weight and I'm feeling super well. So it's pretty crazy. I I was going to like we we chat about this a little bit before before our call there and I wanted to to to just tease out kind of the things that you're doing, but like talk to me a little bit about that. So you you lost let me see if I got this right 15 pounds in was it two weeks? >> Yeah, three weeks. Two or three weeks I think. >> That's amazing. That's amazing. And and so you're putting your blood work into CHPD. Like what is what are you prompting it? Like what are you what are you feeding it and what is it telling you? >> Yeah. Yeah. So what I did is I put I I I put my regular blood blood work that I got the other day and then uh I did the genetic study that Guy Brea has that tells you about your genetic you know the methylation stuff and I put both of them in judge and I say okay these are my my uh blood works this is how I feel right now and this is like my I don't know weight height and all that. This is what I want to achieve. I want to you know live longer. I wanna um feel energized and you know couple things more and I want to eat clean. Um and then uh I put you know I create a project in JB how you can do that folder and you can give some instructions and say I want you to create protocols based on the people that I follow and these are people that I follow and it just spit out like this whole plan and I keep asking questions and I just go to a supermarket and I take photos of the shelves and tells me what to what not to buy, right? Because I put like I want to do I'm doing a keto diet. I'm avoiding uh seed oils. I'm doing all of these. I just tell them, "Oh, don't buy that because it has seed oils. Don't buy this because it's like whatever." Um, buy this because it, you know, the reason why. Um, and I just been putting up judging photos and or maybe taking photo from my fridge. Hey, what can I eat tonight that is with the things I have in my fridge? Coming up with a few recipes. So, it's pretty wild. I mean I I I I've been going deep into JBT for a couple of months and now I think how do I how do I live with without this for all my life, right? Um, so >> yeah, this >> I I so I I I see like a lot of different use cases for for chatb and even like different ways to approach working with AI and >> in the very beginning it was a very like oh I give you this or I have this question help me answer it or create me this thing and that was like a pretty big trend of how people are using chipd myself included >> and more recently I've been meeting folks that are using it to provide a lot of content and context around their life. And those are actually the folks that are really gaining a lot of benefit because what I found is that when you're collaborating with Chat GBD or any other AI model out there, then it's able to give you very tailored instructions on how to treat you or how to how to help you on these things. But when you are pretty open-ended of like, oh, I want to be able to create a blog post that talks about these things, like, >> yeah, you're going to you're you will get the output. Um, but it's a pretty crummy output in most cases there. >> Yeah. And I hear a lot of people complaining, hey, my G is working worse and worse and mine is better and better, but it's like, okay, pay the $20 a month. It's the best investment you're going to do. It's cheaper than a personal assistant. And again, you can track so many things. And I saw a prompt the other day in X that said something like some prompts are going to blow your mind, right? Or something like that. those kind of like clickbait titles, but it was pretty good because he said, "Ask JBT, now that you have so much of my data, tell me what are my five main blind spots." He it gave me the chills because it was like so spot on. It was like and one of the things I said and what I'm working on is you implement too fast and your team struggles to catch up with your changes. It's like that's totally was that's exactly what I need to hear. That's exactly the struggle I had in the business. I'm constantly changing things. I don't giving the time to my team to adapt to the new processes, systems and stuff like that. That was wild. And I I'll find the exact problem I'm sending to you. But um >> yeah, please do. >> That was great. And then things I've been doing for example also really good for the business is like um for the team for example like getting the predictive index um personal evaluation and then understanding okay what what does each one of my team members thrive on? What are they good at? and then splitting my process into okay this part of the process is done by this person who thrives on this because of the their uh predictive index and then if I'm trying to hire someone first I explain what I need to do builds the um job posting and job requirements and then tells me what type of personality test like profile I need to find um so those type of things have been incredible uh but yeah I I've been using judg like even for buying this j I was talking about it's like I I was putting every jip that I found in marketplace and telling me what was good what was bad how it was a process process of like transferring the title, you know, a lot of things that you don't know how to navigate. Even opening the bar right now, it's like, okay, how do I get the liker license? Um, you know, super stressful, difficult thing to do and it's giving me every single step on how to do it. But you need to pay the $20, build these projects and put all the context in there and then, you know, I've been building my custom cheapities, for example, to okay, re review removal, like teach you how to do review removal following Sean Rakitich video on YouTube. Now whenever I ask you to remove a review, ask me for the um conversation, the guest review and the photos and this and that. And now my team can open that and say, "Okay, I need to remove this review. How do I do it?" It's going to ask all the questions, right? Um there's so much that you can do. I mean, it's impressive. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I think like one of the trends I I I I hear what you're saying is almost like that as an entrepreneur again or just like just embarking on new paths. What ChachiP does is that it opens the door for knowledge where this anxiety of doing something new >> is gone. Like you don't necessarily need the full-on expert, but you know, you need to have someone that is able to help you get to like the next few steps. And like CHPD is actually really good at just helping you provide and like open up your windows like did you know about these things and you can ask it questions about like what have I forgotten and you never have to fear like oh a lot of people like I will never open a bar because I don't know how to get my liquor license like and who would I go to to figure this out? I don't want to call the city on how to do this. >> Exactly. And and the one thing for me is is that that that is telling you, you know, this this is phrase I love that is you don't know what you don't know. But JJ is kind of like giving you that because if you go to Google, you can Google, but you only Google what you know, right? Is this bias of, you know, the only information they have on you can ask about the information that you have, but JP is going to give you the whole context and give you extra information you know or the next steps. I actually talked to my team the other day and say, "Hey guys, have you been using JBT lately?" Yes. Do you know how when you ask, for example, hey, I'm visiting a city. Tell me the best things to do. Yeah. And it gives you all of these and tells you, do you want me to build a plan day by day? Yeah. Okay. We that's the philosophy we need to use with your guests. Like if they're asking us for something, we need to follow up with a question, right? And I I'm using host AI for example, N called Condit, which I don't using out um using Copilot, no autopilot, which means helps my team to find information quickly about the properties. I don't want to replace my team with AI. I feel that it's important to keep the human touch at least for now. Um but I don't want to lose that. Uh but the the the the cool thing is that it brings you know all that like it is the proper information that we have loaded and it helps like quickly like where's the pack and play for example. But uh I told him it's like I don't want to replace my team with AI. What I want is give you the superpower of combining AI with the human touch. So you feel elevated, you feel you're faster, you you feel you can resolve quick easier. And I feel that's the way we're heading at some point. I hope it doesn't become everything AI. I really hope there is this blend of the human part with the support of AI to do things faster, efficiently as anything technology did. I just know that that the capabilities of AI are crazier and crazier. So uh I would hate to see AI replacing people in a lot of things. I know that in some industries may be happening. >> Yeah. What are you uh in the AI world there? What are you most interested in learning more about? Are there like things that like notebook LM or like any of these like technologies or tactics or prompt engineering or like any like those types of things that you're like I wish I had time to focus on that and like learn more about that. >> Yeah, I have I have chat LM open right now. I've been trying to build some like agents and stuff like that for different tools. What I would love to do is like kind of like building certain agents that will analyze things given my parameters on revenue management, listing optimization, those type of things and then maintenance like fitting to to judge like a maintenance issue and explaining pretty well how to handle it. Uh how to troubleshoot it which is not that difficult. I just need to find the time to do it myself and put in all the prompts. But um yeah um I I think you know I've been uh I'm passionate about revenue management and I love to analyze the data because I feel revenue management even though I'm really bad with math. I always hated math like was my worst like you know u um the worst assignment in school for me was math like I I hated it but re in my opinion is like marketing and human psychology right uh selling and it's like a puzzle it's like a big puzzle so I want to find a way to grab all the data and ideas that I have and find a way to say okay how we can analyze and see the holes into the things that we analyze is again there's some blind spots. How we can find those blind spots? What are the things that we're missing? What are the things you know you need trends that I don't think any dynamic pricing tool is giving you right now? It's like tell me what is what are my weakest days. Um you know tell me what is the sweet spot for certain days of the week on pricing uh based on the booking window. Um, another thing I would love to learn and find a way how to do that if I can do that with AI or how I can do that is how people are finding our properties when they book, right? Because yeah, you can ask around, but it's I'm super intrigued because I might so many properties are remote, they're rural that I know you're not searching for my town. I know 100% you're not searching for my town. I want to know why you're searching to see how I can optimize that. how can I make sure that you know my listing is is tailored to attract the people that are searching the way that you're searching which I don't know what what way it is. Um but yeah, there are a lot of things that I would love to do. >> Yeah, I think like what you're pointing to is like using AI to actually not just get output but to learn as well too. And that's one of the things that like I've started to shift towards is like actually using AI as almost like a teacher to teach me new skills that I wish I had someone that can tap on the shoulder and annoy anytime I really want. Like in your case for instance like >> if you're you have properties in small towns that you're trying to attract other people that might be in the vicinity or another metro area nearby. Like how do you actually reach them? Like that's actually a great conversation with with Chat GPT or any other AI agent where you're saying, >> "Hey, I have a property in here. My travelers are coming from these different areas. I want to be able to figure out how I can reach them >> and I I think maybe I should be investing into SEO or maybe targeted ads." And like you give it some hints on like some of the things that you're thinking about and then you prompted to say like, "Okay, what have I not thought of? How should I approach this? and how should I break this problem down? And if when you say like, how do I break this problem down? Like that's actually a very powerful way to end a prom because what it's going to do is it's going to try to figure out like okay, these are the goals that you have. These are the things that you know about >> and really scan its network to figure out like okay, how would others approach it? Um >> 100%. >> And you get expert level advice by doing something like that. >> Yeah. And I'm gonna tell you two more things how I use JPT and AI. Number one is like I do a lot of automations. I love like I'm really bad like I don't know coding or anything like that. I just did the hello world one day and that's it and h HTML but uh I love creating like automations and workflows and stuff like that. I've been doing like a sapier and and processes and I use notion. My notion is like a super power nesters notion type of thing where I send all my booking data from host way to notion and we do a lot of project management and CRM in notion and just creating formulas and stuff like that. I just dump it in in JP and then you guide it and what the what I need to to achieve and the things I built in the last two months is like I'm so proud of looking at like you know just making my team's life easier trying to >> what's an example give me give me a hard example on that one. Let me think. I mean, I have so many examples, but uh let me think one that that that I recently did. I'm just pulling up my my uh notion um and trying look. Okay, so let me give you an example with claims, right? So, we open a claim and then I have um a formula that I built with JBT on give me the exact deadline to submit the claim before the period closes in case of the guest didn't review us. So we're trying it's automatically giving us a countdown and telling us okay we have you still have three days you had two days now uh you know in red you have five hours and stuff like that and then automation send us an email if something's about to expire um then I have host AI automatically detects when there's like maintenance issues uh supplies stuff like that a task then it I shoot it to notion via sapier and we have an inbox of problems and And then we decide what to build if we need to do a maintenance ticket or an actional item which is like project management based on that. Um I just been you know building stuff like that all the time or like the bookings for example I built um we had the booking data coming through the web hook with hostway and now I built a way where they can click from the booking to jump into the guest reservation from uh notion to host away without having to go and search for the guest name. you know, just kind of like what I'm trying to do all the time is reduce the number of clicks that my team has to do to do something so they can focus on the problem and not in working the problem by not not creating that like documented problem but actually resolving the problem. Better said >> so did I catch that correctly that you have your booking data feed into hostaway and and be able to correct what are you doing in hostaway in particular for that specific booking. >> Sorry from hostway to notion. So host is my PMS >> right >> and it's sent to notion and what I do is for example is like >> again we have a lot of properties in different places right so I have a lot of like daily tasks >> so daily tasks that we have for example checking preparation and I have one person that pulls the reservations for today because our filter and they're in notion and they start checking every reservation is the access code okay is the number of guests making sense so I have another automation that basically if the property hosts more than four people and the booking for one people it's going to flag it and show them Hey, this may be a reservation you need to reach out because probably it's going to be more guests and we need to adjust the number of guests. We check um we flag third party um we we we flag like stripe bookings like direct and bio to make sure that we verify the payment and making sure the payment is fine. Um then we do for example um we send we use and the cleaners get the their schedule but we also send a reminder every morning to make sure that they kind of say like the app didn't work. I didn't know I had to go. So we had that there so we can see okay these are all the checkouts we had today we sent a reminder to cleaners the cleaners arrived the cleaner finished um so we're basically on top of the operation to make sure that things don't fall through the cracks like this business is something that you can automate a lot but you need to have the human input to make sure that I call them like feedback loops or safety nets and that's what we do is like we have like like these safety nets to make sure that the system that we have automated is running efficiently Because sometimes it may happen, the cleaner didn't show up to the property. Yeah. They accepted the schedule. They knew they had to go. They replied to our message that they're going to go to clean and then something happened along the way and they never made it to the property. And it happened to us a couple of times, right? And that's a metric that I follow, which is um um no cleans, which is means I guess stepping into a property that hasn't been cleaned, and that metric has to be zero every quarter, and that's a non-negotiable with my team. Um, so yeah, that's that's something that um by using JPT and fitting like my SOPs and all of that, it's just been helping me to rewrite my SOPs, building these automations and learning about how to do web hooks, learning a little bit about APIs now as well. Um, so that's been incredibly helpful. >> Okay. So, so if I if I capture it right, your your PMS is host away and what you're doing is you're pulling all of your booking data into notion >> and the main kind of use case is in notion you have a checklist of items that you want your team to do or maybe some of these are automated, >> but you want the team to go through and make sure that these things are checked before someone comes in through the door so that that quality standard is known when the booking happens. Exactly. So we have things for new bookings. We have things for the you know the operation day about cleanings, checkouts, claims, maintenance, um you know pets. We have um task about um lost and found. Um you know pontoons, we run pontoons in a few properties. So um yeah, I mean we have a lot of tasks during the day to make sure that things flow. Um so whenever someone tells me, I don't know if I need to hire a VA because I don't know if you're going to have things to give them. It's like you definitely do because you're doing a lot of things during the day. you just like structure that in a checklist like goes along with the buy back your time uh book is exactly that. It's like you need to write down everything you're doing during the day and then structure in a way that you can assign to someone for the things that you don't want to do or you're not good at doing or they're low pain type of like tasks. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Last month uh book I didn't finish it all the way admittedly but it was like the checklist manifesto. I'm sure I'm sure you ate that one up. >> That was great. Yeah. Yeah, we were talking about that one the other day and that was super interesting. So yeah, man, again, learning a lot with with AI and how to to build processes and and give my team a superpower. That's the way that I see it. >> Yeah. Um I wanted to switch gears a little bit. Um >> yeah, >> and then chat about uh direct bookings there. Talk to me a little bit about some of the tactics that you you deploy at your your management company. >> Yeah, absolutely. And that's something I really want to grow. direct bookings is we've been growing of course um I would say my number one concern was always being the mer record with direct bookings I was always afraid of you know being liable for payments um and you know we are good at hospitality not processing payments so I used to use Hospitable I love Hospitable and it was great and they have their their merchant record process kind of like Airbnb where you know you have their booking and they charge the card and they're liable for that and then I moved to Hostaway in November last year because I became a Marriott partner like I'm listed in Hans Marriott and I had to move to another PMS and our booking website now is through stripe right and also VBO through stripe and I was pretty concerned about that. So what we did is building these systems I mentioned like you know checking third party anything that goes to stripe we check the form of payment in this daily task and make sure that the name matches the reservation and then matches the identification and picture that they submitting happy guest which we use for rental agreement and and ident identity verification. So, if you haven't used Happy Guest, everybody go talk to Kenan or Mike, tell them I sent you. I love them and they're amazing. Love what they're building. I love them both. Um, but yeah, so we built this process and now that I feel more comfortable, I also on boarded count, which you don't really need to do. I I don't think I don't know if it's worth it, but just give me peace of mind when I go to to bed, which is an Equifax company that verifies and give me early alerts for potential chargebacks or if I have a chargeback, they help me with the dispute. So I built my text stack and my process. I think that was the thing I was scared about. It was something I was unknown for me and again with JPT I explained hey here I'm going to start being merchant record. what do I need to do to protect myself? Is it just account and these processes and how to to check everything? And along the process with their bookings, we just started like um okay putting signs in the properties for people to book again and then we we started implementing a few properties um stay to collect guest emails. Now we collect also through happy guest and we every week my my personal assistant. She sends all the book the the emails after filtering the bad guests to Anna. Anna is uh Anna Sterna is my my marketing person. She she built a um short rental marketing business and I think was one of her first customers. I told her, "G use him as a guinea pig. Big try try whatever you want." And we started email campaigns and we started like reaching out to, you know, at the moment checkout and then campaigns about new properties that we launch um promotions like like she will reach out and say, "Hey guys, what property is slow this month so we can bump it into the emails." Um or what new properties you have. Um and yeah, and those been really good. I mean, we see people coming back or seeing this these promotions. And then I have a few more things in mind I can talk about uh on things I want to start implementing. >> Yeah. Yeah. I actually I am interested just a little bit if you can tease us a little bit of like some of the things that you want to learn more about and that you're thinking about and deploying. It sounds like you're you have a pretty solid foundation and I share this with a lot of our listeners here is like your email is probably like the lowest hanging fruit that you should be doing as any host. There's many ways and it sounds like you actually have two ways of collecting emails, maybe even third if you have a rental agreement as well too. >> But you have many ways of collecting emails and that's actually one of the best ways to start to create a relationship between you and the guest there. And so the guest doesn't think of it like, oh, I'm staying at Airbnb. No, I'm staying at XYZ property management company. I'm I'm staying at Blackberry Hospitality, wherever it is. And they know it's you. they they have they start to have a relationship with you. When they start to think about where they travel, they think about you. >> But you only get that opportunity if you create that relationship with them. >> And email is like again one of the best best ways of doing it. >> So I'm interested in hearing like you have those emails. It sounds like you already have a marketing engine specifically around building these campaigns out there. >> Yeah. >> What's what's one of what's one of the the big unlocks or what you're what what are you excited about? So the next things I want to do um I want to start working a little more with the revenue management applying to direct bookings. Uh so a couple of things I have in my uh um you know things to do is uh I start offering certain promotions and discounts for direct bookings in a very strategic way. Uh something I noticed uh a couple of weeks ago I was looking to to stay in New York City for a day and I was looking through some of the websites from the hotels and they're like book two nights and get a third night for free or stuff like that. Uh and you know you can build those things by identifying okay if I'm letting someone book in three days is better than nothing and they're still paying you know the premium probably because they're going to book like Thursday, Friday, Saturday or Friday, Saturday, Sunday. the fourth day that I'm going to offer, it's going to be probably Wednesday or Tuesday. And that's the less popular day in your calendar, which probably if you go and you guys, everybody open your calendars, tell me Wednesday, Tuesdays are the opposite day to your weekends, less popular days, unless you're in a business kind of like market like business travelers. Um, offering things like that, like, hey, book three nights, get the fourth for free. Um, and then, uh, I I I heard Mike uh, surgeon the other day, s >> Mike again. Yeah. Saying about, you know, putting a QR code a 10% discount immediately in the property and they can book immediately. I want to do that. Uh I have like some signs, but uh I don't have like a like a strong offer like okay, scan the code, you're going to get 10%. I love the idea. So I'm printing this these signs now and start taking shipping them to the properties. Um, and then thinking also what other things I can add into the properties like you know maybe some something that people can take home and then have the branding just for them to say okay this is fun like a keychain or something that they remember a brand which I know some people were far advancing in the game on this uh >> but yeah it's just something that takes implementation it's an investment but I feel that you know with all the changes going with the OTAAS you definitely want to have control in your business and that was kind of like my mindset shift of saying Yeah, we had a few situations with the OTAAS. Uh, and I want to put names, right? And I'm not breaking any terms of services. I want to leave that in in on record just in case because they're being pretty aggressive lately. Um, I had a few situations where people, you know, they were siding with with with the guests in situations the guests were not right. It's hard to remove that punishing for everything. And I said, "Okay, even though I relied on these OTAAS to grow my business and they were amazing and they're simple to use, I understand I identified that to have a a a healthy long-term business, sustainable time, I have to have control on my bookings, on my traffic, and my properties. And if something happens, because we had a property being delisted pre and fairly in my opinion, I was able to get it back up after like 3 months of challenging with with with the OTAA. Um, in the meantime, we got a few direct bookings and uh other platforms I haven't used before like Booking.com. And that was good because, you know, you get the listed of the one of the big platforms. It's like it's a death sentence for a lot of people. It's like you lost your investment. >> Like everything's gone. And by building this, we were able to, oh, look, we're getting Google vacation rental bookings. We're getting direct bookings. And of course, we're not making as much as before, but we still kept some revenue coming until we figure out this situation. And if I would have been had a stronger process for direct bookings and stuff like that, I would have been in a better position even. And that's kind of like the goal where where I'm where I'm going to I want to get in case again one day the LTA changed their terms of services and we're at fault and they say, "Oh, you're going to rent anymore this property." >> Yeah. It's it's it's funny. I I I felt it under your kind of your breath there where like I want to put this on record. I'm not breaking T's and C's and and and such is like and I think what you're what you're signaling here is like this like this is not just you but the entire industry is scared of the major OTAA because of just how much power they have overall business >> and I think that's why a lot of folks are now investing into direct bookings is because like oh they feel like >> they almost lock lost control like in the very beginning it was help and it's gotten to a point where you're on like a choke hold and they are they have control over how your listings are. And it sounded like you were 3 months is actually a very long time for not being able to get any revenues for 3 months. That's a long time. But I think the the nice that comes out of it is like you're experimenting with different things. And had that not happened, you wouldn't have actually experimented or maybe not as aggressively >> and invest into it. And the thing that I find that is is that when you invest into direct bookings, it's very different than investing into I I'll just say Airbnb, it's on when you're on an OTAA and you're trying to get bookings. It's very transactional. You're trying to get that next transaction. You're trying to get that next booking. When you're dropping rates, you're getting that next transaction there. It's very very transactional based. But the the big difference between that and spending time on your direct bookings is that direct bookings is compounding. >> Exactly. >> The things that you do compounds over each other. So every month when you're growing your social media, you're growing your following, that compounds. If you do nothing else, it still continues to work. When you have your email marketing campaign and you have all your campaigns all scheduled out, your sequences all scheduled out, you put that time in there, it works on its own. That email list grows over time. So, these are the things that like it actually compounds over each other. And I I I I see this over and over again where people try to do direct bookings and they'll try it out for six, eight months and they're like, I only got like two bookings out of it and they feel like they didn't get that momentum, but I was talking to a friend the other day and he talks to me about this analogy and he was applying it to entrepreneurship, but it also applies here, but like how a bamboo shoot actually grows. In the first year when you're growing a bamboo shoot, it looks like nothing's happening. It looks like it's wilting. It's not doing anything. There's nothing happening. And then on the 18th month or how two years in, it starts to grow and it grows and it grows exponentially. >> And I feel like a lot of times the hosts that do really well in direct bookings, they continue to nurture it as if it was a plant and they continue to let it thrive and over time they start to see it grow. But that first year, it's a lot of foundations that you're putting in place and a lot of testing and iterations. >> I I couldn't agree more. And you know, let me let me pick on that because that that's actually my my experience. And I'm a pretty again, I'm a pretty impatient person. I you know, I I I mention this again, high ADHD uh diagnosed and you know, recently, but I knew it all my life and I want things now. I want things fast and then when I lose focus on something I'm next to the next thing and I forgot about that old project pretty quickly and when I when I look into things like we're talking oh you know my process to move to America it took two years and I had to be patient growing a management company you know I I started like a branch of my management company with Emily a partner great person in Colorado and we started the LLC six months ago maybe more but probably man it's just been eight months or more and we didn't have any movement for a long time, but she was building the relationships over there and all of a sudden, hey, four properties. And I told her, it's like, it's just you're planting a seed, you let that, you know, grow and then we harvest and it takes time. And I have people reaching out to me for now revenue management services or management services. I met these people a year ago, two years ago. I helped them get it started. I helped them, you know, with something like answering a question in Instagram and all of a sudden they kept me in and I do it out of, you know, good faith, but they sometimes retire say, "Hey, I want you to manage." And if not, it's totally fine. But um with the direct booking website, it's the same thing. Now I'm constantly updating my Mailchip plan because I'm hitting the maximum I'm getting. It's like it's exciting. And of course um what I feel with the direct book is like people again when want immediate results. And of course you need to understand your acquisition cost, right? Uh again going back to revenue management and keeping KPIs and metrics. Your acquisition cost is how much it cost you to um acquire a client, a customer, a guest, um even a property management client, same thing. Now, of course, you do the investment on the property on the direct booking website. Uh if you're using a professional source, which is what I will suggest, you're going to pay for that. And of course, your first guess acquisition cost is going to be pretty pretty high. As you start getting more and more bookings, that acquisition cost is going to become minimal. And now you're hand control the on the business. you're paying less fees, your guests are getting a better rate, they want to come back, you have more control on the outcome of situations like disputes, damages, claims, and stuff like that if you have your systems and your processes in place. Um, and yeah, and it's just something that grows over time. I my suggestions for people starting is like maybe you know unless you have a pretty incredible unique property it's really hard to penetrate like Google and investing a lot of money in Google uh ads and Facebook ads in the beginning I mean some people may be successful I feel like your acquisition cost in the beginning is going to be huge so try to find a way to use the direct booking website in a strategic way where it's a way to build your brand have your guest to recognize you and remember about you and coming back and then coming back direct And then as you keep growing people going to start booking direct and then you have all the tools that help you like Google location rentals is based on your direct booking website. So you need to have a direct booking website to being on Google and Google I mean haven't blew up yet but I think it's going to be huge because there's a lot of smart people a lot of people in other businesses and areas and kind of like um you know um I follow like people in Tik Tok and and and Twitter and stuff like that. They say, "Hey, yeah, you want to save $400 in your next uh Airbnb stay." Uh, I'm not saying to do that, but Airbnb, but you you you you find the name of the of the of the manager and you search them on Google and then you find the property at a lower price. And if you don't have your direct booking website and the next property, the second best option has the booking website and they're going to save $400, they're going to go to a second one even though you had a nicer view. $400 or $400 uh on your money. So um and whatever that that amount is is like you know people like the con people like to see they're getting they getting a deal and those people are searching for deals or people are you know great at the credit card points and all of that. They're going to be doing the same thing because they identify a property through whatever channel they found it and they're going to find where is the best place to to book it at a lower price. And I do that with flights. I do that with hotels. I just find where can I get the best deal for one thing that I want. >> Yeah, I hear you. I hear you. All right, Fedrico, we usually end uh with we end the show with three questions. Um if you're ready for it. >> Yeah. >> The first question, what's a what's a good book recommendation for us here today >> for for me and the listeners? >> I'm looking at all my books right now, but I I I had two in mind. Uh one that I love is Profit First. I think that book really helped me keeping a healthy business especially being a the organized person. Uh you know and always being a mess with my personal finances. Uh I after reading profit first I implement everything and I it's just it works. It works 100%. So I highly recommend people that one and then more towards you know inspirational and stuff like that. Shoe dog by um the Nike founder. I read that book. I the wor that book. I loved it. I love the the story and I was trying to get a credit card uh through Chase for my business. I didn't have a credit card and he talks about, you know, how he was like keeping his first shoe company in the Nike by getting loans and negotiating with the bank. He was like, you know, I kept going to the bank and talking and I would go to Chase and they'll be like, "No, we cannot approve you." And I was like, "But I have everything that you need. I know I have everything you need. I I I'm sure I can get a credit card." and I finished the book, closed it, drove to Chase and say, "I'm not in here until you give me a credit card." And I got my credit card. So >> nice. >> It was a great book for me. It really helped. Um, so yeah, those two books I'll say >> that that sounds like a a good uh I don't know if it is already, but it sounds like a good Netflix series. >> All right, second question. What's a one piece of mindset advice that you would give to someone that's starting something completely new? I feel like you are you have all the credentials to give really good advice on this one. >> Yeah, thank you. And I would say um you know just going back to what we chat uh you know just being persistent having a goal and definitely uh being patient like you may not see immediate results on the things that you do on day one. But if you put the hard work and you keep working towards that goal and it's not something that if it doesn't work in the first week I'm going to drop it. You're going to see the results. I always say that the short-term rental people are extremely resilient. I the best operators I know have gone through crazy the craziest things the first month or first year with the property. So, right like crazy damages, crazy guests. Uh like uh Sarah from the garbles, she always tells the story that she got a booking.com reservation and the entire apartment was stolen. Like she stepped into it like it was a shell empty walls apartment. literally everything take uh Scaramati their first property first guest in Big Bear flush flood. Um I started managing the week of the snow mag in Texas where everything was down and it was crazy. Um so yeah, don't let those things bring you down. You're going to power through things and yeah, just keep going. >> Awesome. I love that. I love that. Last question. What's one piece of tactical advice that you would give to someone that's either starting their direct booking engine or trying to amplify it? >> Yeah, I would say build your SOPs. Take a moment, play with JPT and explain what you want to do, what are the things that you're afraid about, you know, with direct bookings. What are the things that you should be, you know, careful about? Again, breaching terms of services and stuff like that. Play with JBT for an hour, 30 minutes, giving them all the information that you have, all the questions and concerns and how to work around it and build a strong process because I think their book is actually running a real business as that's when it becomes a real business when you are taking control of things. So, >> yeah, >> I love that. All right, Fed, where can folks find out more about you? How can they follow along your ride? Uh yeah, >> where can they follow you? >> I would say the best place is uh STR Guide in in Instagram is where I'm most active. I'm not super active, but that's the best place. I I need to to get back to posting. I I promise I'll do that. But there's a lot of great free content I put up there, and I hope people can find somebody. >> Awesome. All right, Fed, it was really good to have you on the show. It's good to see you again after maybe a month and a half, two months now. Um, but love love to see I I love the growth and kind of like the persistence that you had through a lot of challenges. Um, so I'm I'm just thrilled about your progress and I can't wait to kind of see you grow. If that's not in your portfolio size, even if it's in how you balance your life and and and find more time for yourself, I'm I'm excited to kind of see how your life progress. >> Yeah. No, I love this. Uh, it was a great conversation. So, I appreciate the the space. >> Awesome, man. See you next time, Eddie. >> Yeah.