Argentina is a country that can give you everything and take you everything in one day. >> As an entrepreneur, this country is open for business. It's almost like it's too easy sometimes. >> I had green camera videos of people naked. They know the camera's there and they're walking naked or stuff like that. >> Coming from Puerto Rico, every single regulation that some stupid [ __ ] can come up with, they will put in as a law. >> At the end of the day, what people want is just a safe, clean space, a quick response and been taken care of. And when we can go [music] the extra mile, we're going to go the extra mile. We went to check the house and all the art was like turned around all over the house. They didn't want to recognize the hearts because they were shooting porn. Bro, >> things are going to break like septic tanks, hug, all of that breaks on a Sunday night. It never happens on a Tuesday at 2 p.m. where you can send someone. >> I talked to my tax advisor and I'll be >> Your tax advisor sucks balls. >> Okay. Well, [music] >> two vascular surgeons walk into a bar and come out with a podcast. We are talking everything vascular and not. Welcome to the life of flow podcast. >> The following podcast is not relating to my teachings and work at Delen Medical Center and is for entertainment purposes only. >> Hello everyone. Welcome to the life of flow podcast. And today we are not talking DVA. We are not talking Angios. We are talking short-term rentals and all the mistakes I made with mine and how Federico Simmerman came in from heaven and saved me from myself. Federico is going to share his story, his knowledge. Hope you guys enjoy. Vamos, Federico, >> good morning, man. >> Bueno Diaz, thank you for being here. >> Morning. Good morning. >> All right, guys. So, for the audience, couple of uh new things happening here in the back. One is um that we are recording in New Bron Falls, Texas. >> Beautiful Texas Hill Country. >> If you don't know what it is and you've ever trash talk Texas, you could go screw yourself. >> Oh my god. They started really positive today. Great. >> Come to New Bron Falls, get an Airbnb, and understand what peace is. Just looking at the trees in the back. We've had uh 24 hours of just bliss. Uh really, you know, the trees, the solitude, the pool, everything has been great. So, please put it on your um bucket list. Second and uh super exciting is that we have our first formal and official female co-host. So, welcome to the show, Crystal. >> Thank you for having me. >> Stberger. Did I say that right? >> That was very close. >> I'm not going to try to pronounce her last name, but thank you, Crystal. [laughter] >> Yeah. Thanks for having me. >> Crystal is uh not only a super cool chick, she's also the VP of operations for Hope Vascular. So, she works with me on a regular basis and she's got a pretty cool background. Um, we'll have to do a show just about you one day. You've got a >> crazy background. Military fighting. >> Oh, really? >> Oh, dude. >> Oh, >> yeah. >> Somebody's going to ninja when you number one, your right hand you have to be afraid of. >> Yeah. >> Because she has to be able to tell you >> when you're [ __ ] up. >> Yeah. and and she knows how to stop. She knows how to use guns. You do not. >> Yes, >> he's making me sound way cooler than I actually am, but I appreciate that. >> And anyway, with that said, um, welcome, Federico. We did the intro at the top of the show. Um, but I think it's always good to give context to our listeners. So, we'd love to hear a little bit of a summary on your journey, where you come from, what led you to wherever you're at now, and then maybe finalize as to why you ended up being a Airbnb guru, administrator, operator, etc., etc. >> Sure. I mean, it's been a fun journey. I'm, you know, I'm from Argentina. Um, been in America. >> Where in Argentina? >> I'm from Monocitis. Beautiful. >> What team? What soccer team do you >> see? Um, >> so yeah, from Wenos Cyrus. Um, man, it's it's been a crazy journey. So, uh, let's see. I finished high school, tried to start college, um, like political science, and then my dad lost everything and we had to move to the middle of the country to the middle of nowhere. I'll try to make that quick. >> In Argentina or here in this >> in Argentina. Yeah. No, I I moved to America less than three years ago. So, we were in Argentina. We moved to San Louis. >> Do you do you mind sharing what what what happened? Is it okay for you to open up on that? What happened with your dad? >> Man, Argentina is a country that can give you everything and take you everything in one day. Um and you know it's been extremely regulated for many many years with you know where it's difficult to do business. It's difficult to to do anything which is one of my reasons why I moved to America. Um yeah my dad had um he was a an importer of um parts for for um I forget the I think it's called door closers in English but it's basically a thing that closes the door automatically. uh he was doing that for a German company and then there was some issues with imports in Argentina. Basically he lost the business. Um and you know things got tough. I was 18. We left the city because he wanted to move to a quieter place and there were less opportunities there which was wasn't a great move. And then I was 19. I was like yeah I'm going back to the city. That that was like we were only like 12 12 hours from the city. Um I was like I'm going back. So I I went back to the city, started working like any job that I could. Um and then one day I was walking on a big avenue and I saw an American office and I have a resume in my back backpack. I was like I'm going to leave one and the security war got grabbed it. I thought he would throw it away but they called me like a couple months later to start working in the call center. So they start in the call center. >> This is a remote job. So you would be in wenocitis, you would sit in front of this phone and you would be kind of taking things cuz you cuz you learned English. I guess this you were fully you were bilingual at that point. So you could be part of a call center. Okay. >> Yeah. Exactly. Uh my English was pretty rough. >> Massive massive call centers in Costa Rica by the way. It's a huge business. >> Oh >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So Argentina wasn't a big call center uh country say because of all the regulations to do business but Argentina you have a lot of like skilled workforce that at that time was pretty affordable but American artists had a call centers in most of the countries where they used to fly and then they they left a few open so it was an office of 100 people that you'll take most of like call from Argentina and Latin America and a few in English. Um, and I started the Costa. What I didn't know is that most of the people applying to work at American Airlines was because of the travel benefits. I had no idea about the travel benefits. My dream growing up was to one day visit New York. So, what right now I live three hours from New York. I was there yesterday, right? Uh, which is wild for me. But my my my kind of my my my computer background photo was a photo of Manhattan. I wanted to visit the US. It was like my dream. >> Why do you think that is? Why why why do you think you had infatuation with New York City? Which is funny because we all have these little, you know, things as a as a kid, right? That for some reason. >> Some weird moment in life makes you just wildly, you know, oh, I I mean I wanted like I wanted to go to the moon, right? I mean, that was that was my thing. >> I'm still not giving up on that, by the way. I told you, right? >> Yeah, we did. >> We have a we did a brainstorming session where I said that we are going to record in the moon and maybe I'll >> I told you that you will do it on your own. I'll be from Earth. >> Are you afraid of of this? >> I don't know. I just I don't know, man. >> I'll join you. >> I was about to say, would you go with me? >> Okay. Okay. I don't know. >> How about you? Are you going to >> to the moon? >> Well, like if there's like if we could get on Elon Musk's whatever number. >> Have you noticed that Elon never gets in the rockets? >> He knows something. >> Have you noticed that? >> He does not know like he knows that they could they could die. Yeah, Elon never gets in the rockets. I'll stay with Elon at headquarters. You can go up. >> Yeah, I know with you. No worries. >> So, I'm sorry. So, what do you can you pinpoint why you had this New York thing? >> Yeah. Now, I I'll say, you know, it's funny. What when I was like little, probably three, four, my my we had an Atlas map in my house. That's I love maps. You can see here I have a tattoo of the map here. Like, I love maps. I love traveling. I love the war and cultures. And I I had a map of the world that I would go page by page. I was little. I was draw, you know, drawing like I want to visit this country and weird places that I end up going like Benarus, right, where they have no tourism. Uh we went with my wife to Chernobyl like back in the day. We went to weird places, but um that that's what I got into where we're American, but New York was like, you know, movies, American culture. I always love like American movies, TV shows, um, music, and it was like that place. >> Yeah, New York is exciting in that sense. >> It's a staple. >> Hey, it's a cool place. Yeah, it's a good place. Cool. All right, keep going. >> I know. It was It was kind like, you [laughter] know, it's American dream, right? You think about New York, you think, you know, this is the capital of the Western world. And that was for me when Europe. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> So, yeah, I mean, I studed that job and again, I had no idea about the trial benefits. Um, so I started I need a a job and yeah, they told me about the travel benefits and literally which is basically you can fly for free, you pay the taxes and you got flight first class. So my legs started shaking like I kid you not. I was like can't believe this. So yeah, I started there in the call center one year after I got promoted to be a being a trainer for their international offices. So I got to travel for work. They're sending me to all their cultures like in mostly Latin America um Peru, Brazil, going to Texas to headquarters u a lot of Mexico and then going to India, Malaysia, Liverpool, different places that we started to open. That was really fun. And the cool thing is I had a lot of days off because of all the travel and the travel benefits. So I in that those 10 years I was at American I flown over a million miles, visited over 60 countries. That was really cool. And I got to experience here said the crazy part I was like like like to to to talk about. I got the travel benefits and to travel in first class but I was broke because I was making my my wage was in Argentinian pesos which was extremely devaluated. So I I'll get off the plane on first class surrounded by you know CEOs and executives and stuff like that uh entrepreneurs and successful people and I would go to the worst host with 16 people to sleep in a city which was the one thing I could afford eating in McDonald's and you know that was what I could do. It was like crazy life. >> Um so it was pretty funny. Um but I did that for 10 years. I was doing pretty well at the company and they wanted to bring me to headquarters. I wanted to come to to headquarters. They open a position. I applied and you know started to take some time and I I reached out to to manager and like hey Tracy what's going on you know it's been a month I haven't heard back and she's like hey you don't have a college degree we cannot sponsor your visa. And that shattered my dreams because that that was like kind of like what it was my goal right is in I didn't have a lot of like growing opportunities in the company. Um and around then I started kind of like researching more about entrepreneurship and reading you know that rich that and the classics. >> F let me ask you this because I I also I feel that whenever you say I'm going to start generating I'm going to start creating Rich Dad Poor Dad is like on the top 10. >> Yeah. And uh Think and Grow Rich too by um >> I don't know that I've read that one >> by Napoleon Hill. Yeah. >> And Grow Rich. >> Yeah. I'll have to add this. We'll make a a list in the bio of of your top five books to help you, you know, jump into entrepreneurship. >> I I'll give you the list. I have a few that I love. Uh >> there's a guy called uh Mike Malawich who wrote a profit first and the pumpkin plan. Great books. I think everybody should read those. >> Oh, the one I loved is also owners eat last. Mic very very unfortunately untimely for me >> cuz I was already like one year into operations and I had done some really dumb [ __ ] [laughter] >> Like you don't get a line of credit from a bank and give yourself salaries. No. >> Like that doesn't make any sense and we did that. >> That's okay. So anyway, you live and you learn. >> That was dumb. Uh but anyway, owners eat less. >> Well, but actually if you read profit first, you had to pay yourself first. That that's kind of the whole thing. So you got to read that one. It's a great book and it helped me tremendously. >> I'll have to read that one and give me some. >> Oh, it seems like you did that already. >> Yeah, I don't know because I go back and I was like, that was not smart. Okay, >> anyways, [laughter] keep keep going. So, you Yeah, you were >> this podcast will be an interrupting segment after an interrupting segment. >> Yeah. No, so I started reading those books. I was like, I want to start something. I was super excited. Um, and that was like December 19. We went on a trip on in March 20. No, so that's 2020. So 21. What was co? I I already lost my time. It was December >> 2020. >> What is it? >> 2020. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So yeah, we we came back for the trip and COVID happened, right? >> Um working at airline like they started like laying off people. We didn't know what was going to happen. Um and I was I was fed up with Argentina. Argentina was really mismanaged. Actually, my dad passed from COVID in October. So it was it was a mess. I wanted to leave. We I have a few bucks saved like our last savings. I put it into a work control visa to Sweden, which was the only country I was seeing work control visas. And the next day that I applied the they suspended agreement, I lost all the the money I put into that. It was like my last 600 bucks. Um so yeah, it was like it was a rough time. And then a friend from American reached out to me like, "Hey, um you know, you're good with like computers and doing things." And I have a friend, he also uh had a podcast with with another guy and they were doing Airbnb arbitragees of time shares. He had a time share with Walmart and basically he was able to sell all the inventory left in last minute on Airbnb. So he was an account with like 500 listings, all rooms in different time shares and he was like he needs someone to take care of this and I still was in like a remote uh training for American. >> Can you explain for them what what is arbitrage? Yeah. So, arbitrage is when you lease a building, an apartment, a property, or you have an asset that you don't own, but you can pay for that like a monthly rent and then put it on Airbnb and make and arbitraring that difference. So, I for example have one apartment in forward where I used to live and two in Omaha, Nebraska that I lease. I have a lease. I have an agreement with the building management with appro with them that I pay rent 1,700 a month. I put in Airbnb and I'm making maybe 25 3,000 uh a month and I'm making no difference. >> So it's a lease that allows you to sub lease. >> Exactly. Yeah. So and then they were doing that with the time shares. So basically they had ownership with time shares and they had the they were paying the room rate let's say 100 bucks and they were putting it on on Airbnb at 150 to 100. So making that spread the difference and I was like you know I need something too. how much they're paying. Uh, and they were like, "$ 350 an hour." Uh, and that's not 350. Uh, it's $3.50. >> And that was good money in Argentina at the time. I was like, "Yeah, I'll do it." >> That's good money here. >> $3.50. >> Oh, 300.50, bro. >> That was a clarification. No, no. 350. >> I was like, that's money here now. I'll take that job. Jesus. 350 an hour. That's okay. $3.50. And I was I need the money. It's like let's do it in Argentina at the time. Like like inflation was 110% a year. Like money was worth nothing. I was like I need it. Um so I started doing that. Uh I started learning the Airbnb thing. Before that I put uh one of my rooms in in Monosirus in our apartment. We we we still in a very touristy area and it has per bedroom. So we did um Airbnb that one. So in 2017 18. So, I kind of like knew how the platform worked, but I started working on that. It was like managing 500 listings at once. Um, and I started learning a lot and I was like, "Okay, there's something here, right?" And there's people who need help and you know, Airbnb hadn't blow blow up like it did during good property management. And I have friends that were working property managers that were not doing a really good job. So then this friend um told me, "Hey, do you want to start like a partnership and we can start like leasing and subleasasing properties here uh and then managing for the people?" And we started that. I started doing that 5,000 miles from America, right? I was doing all the operations, all the communication, scing the cleaners, all that from from Argentina. And I was doing pretty well. And I talked to my wife, we we were kind of like fed up with the whole situation in Argentina. and she happened to be her mom grew up in LA and is American. So my wife is American even though she never lived in the US. So it's like we there's a way to get like green card here. Uh which is tough because she didn't have a tax return or anything to show like hey you can bring me to America and support me. So with the the money I was making with that um business I started putting in an attorney an immigration attorney to get uh our green card. took two years and we got the green card. Um, October 2022. November, we're on a plane. Uh, we moved to So, we landed in Miami with two dogs and a cat. Drove all the way to Texas and we moved to to the DFW area. Um, and then over there, you know, just to to make it quick, we we grew that company I have with my partners to 70 properties, but I didn't like the quality that the properties that we have. And I started again with Blackberry which is my current company. Um with better properties I I can have like a vision of you know quality that is design location amenities. Um that started doing really well. I started partnering with people that uh had a presence online and they were raving about our um services and our performance because one thing that I learned through American Airlines. I was training I was a trainer for the tariff department that is kind like revenue management applied to tickets and American invented revenue management and revenue management is the key factor on an Airbnb property a short rental property because it's a very unique type of product is highly perishable meaning that any net that you don't sell you can never sell it again you have a fixed inventory because you only have 1/4th of July a year and different customers are willing to different prices at different times and the price is customer perceived value. It's not like a, you know, a commodity where you say, "Hey, I know that a phone is around $1,000 an iPhone." This is like a wide range of prices. So I started applying what I learned at American in short-term rentals and our properties were perform outperform the market every single time and that started kind of like you know give give us a name in the industry to a point that uh three months ago I just launched a business that only does revenue management for property for short rental property owners and in that journey kind of like to close a little bit my my background I started partnering with friends um so I was in Texas. We moved to New York. And here I have some friends that we're doing uh investments where we raise capital. We buy properties. We flip them. We put them on Airbnb. I manage them. Um so we have around 10 properties now that we've done that including an in with five bedrooms with a restaurant bar that I just open. So you know it's been less than three years I've been in America. I have different businesses. I was able to, you know, buy properties, uh, open a restaurant, two businesses in the short run industry. It's been amazing. Uh, I love this country. So, >> yeah, that that's one thing that that people we were, who were we talking to yesterday? But I I don't think Americans realize the power that America gives you as an entrepreneur. um this country is open for business. Um, what you have to I think the it's it's almost like it's too easy sometimes and that could get you into trouble because you can walk into any bank with a business plan made of three pages that you built on chat GPT uh and some projections and the person behind that desk may just say like, "Hey, This sounds like a good business. I'm going to give you a credit line. >> Yeah. >> And it's substantiated on nothing, right? I mean, so worst case scenario, which is pretty bad, but you can chapter 11, right? You can just say, "I'm bankrupt. The business didn't work." But um but the the the ease by which you can get capital in America is is crazy. Um and and I say that it comes at the risk that every time you make more money, guess what? They want to give you more money. And the way that America catches you and grabs you is that you're like, "Oh, I'm making more, so I want that car." >> Guess what? You You walk into a Porsche and they're like, "Sure, here's a $250,000 car. You can drive it out right now." No questions asked because it's America. No questions asked. They don't care. They maybe they'll uh run your credit score and that's it. Um and then, okay, there's this house. You started at 250. Now you're in a 700 and a $ 1.5 million house cuz it just keeps growing. So you have to be very careful. That's you know what I it's almost like you have to have an exit strategy. >> You can't stay here forever or you're going to die here working. That's my perspective. >> I don't know. But I think that it is great where the the difference in in regulation and in how like society um doesn't want to like has a healthy distance from staying out of your business, you know, like because yeah, coming from Puerto Rico, uh it's just like every single regulation that some stupid [ __ ] can come up with, they will put in as a law uh to and for for I don't know what reason, but they people don't see second and third order effects. And I don't think see people here see second and third order effects, but there is a philosophy I'll get the [ __ ] out of my way out of my way >> uh and let me do my thing as an individual which >> you know for me it's very similar to nature just like it it's kind of the way nature works like whoever's the smartest figures out something out survives and thrives. So, I think we Yeah, I I I really appreciate that. But anyways, let's talk about let's talk about Airbnbs. Um, yeah, I I as America does, I I had the opportunity to to get a I bought a house uh in in uh the Hill Country in Austin or Austin, Florida. >> I got it in 2021. >> So, it was free money time. >> Yeah. Like we're talking about jumbo 30 years at 3%. >> Yeah. >> Some ridiculous [ __ ] like that. >> Some ridiculous [ __ ] like that. Yeah. And then >> free free money. You can't you can't get that anywhere in the world, by the way. >> So So I got the house and then at the time we had a lease. Uh Courtney had a lease still downtown. So we would say, "Oh, like let's just Airbnb." And then it was like a lot of money. I was like, "Oh, you can rent this place out for at that point it was crazy. It's like $400 a night or something." And then we would just go, we just like, "Oh, let's rent it a weekend and go on vacation." Um, so then anyways, we move into the house. I see another house up the street that I like more. And I was like, "Oh, I can just Airbnb this one because it makes money and just buy the other house." And turns out I'm I am I it we weren't that bad, but it requires a lot of attention. Airbnb just because the energy you put into a place is like and it's great because you get people an amazing space. They create amazing memories and they leave you little note cards saying, "Hey, we're so grateful. We spent like our grandma's birthday here. She loved it." Or like our kids or something. So, it's really >> It makes me feel like a douchebag cuz I've never written a single letter to any place. >> I I I would if Yeah. I'm sure you haven't. >> I'm sure you have. >> Have you written a note to any Airbnb owner? >> I have not. >> You [ __ ] [laughter] >> I written really good reviews. Loved your place. >> I want to leave the gays a note. They've got this place impeccable, beautiful, and it's amazing. >> So, they're getting an I'm gonna write a note five star >> review. Um, anyways, uh, but you know, life gets lives and then it gets busy and then we try to offload it, uh, on our own and we suck at it. We really suck. So, uh, Federico comes comes in and saves the day. >> But, walk me maybe so that it gives some more context like tell me the three biggest pain points that you guys were having. >> Laundry. So, so like ma, so the turnaround the turnaround because you have to it's like >> but don't you just get a group of maids and pay him and done? >> Yeah. But there's inventory management. You have to manage that they have all the supplies. You have to do quality control because obviously you know you know >> like if a towel is damaged, you have to replace it. >> They have to look at every single towel, make sure there's perfect. They have to, you know, not leave things around. They have to >> so it has to have a specific crew >> that understands that they're there to clean but as long as they have an whoever manages them has to care and they have to go through and it doesn't happen that often. So >> got it. >> So you know then we would have to like >> uh clients were upset then we would have to deal with that and it was just like it was a constant issue in the back of my mind. So, maintenance and care overall. Anything else? Another >> and then >> dealing with a client itself sounds horrible. >> It could be horrible. >> Horrible. I I there's I mean I'm going to >> don't don't even I know where you're going. >> Okay. There's a certain population that people from the Midwest. Sorry. Sorry. >> Sorry. They they they like to complain. People from the Midwest for some reason. I don't know. I've never been to a Midwest. Um, >> okay. That was actually very politically correct. Thank you. >> No, that that is true. Like, you know, anyways, >> you suck Midwesterns. >> I do a little business to the Midwest. I love my Midwestern. >> Yeah, I'm sure you do. [laughter] We love you. We love >> I'm going to go on the record. >> Yeah. >> Say, boy, I My grandmother's from the Midwest. I love her. Everybody there is awesome. Keep giving me business. >> There's far more many metrics that go into managing a healthy Airbnb than I would have ever imagined. >> Yeah. just after watching some of your interviews. Uh so I imagine if you're not if you don't have a management company that's processing that for you and it's a new business venture then >> yeah it's a it's great to learn about business because I had never really had ran a business. So, I'm very grateful that I did it because then it's like, "Oh, let me look what the [ __ ] a piano. Okay, let me like go on this YouTube channel and learn about this and you know, so you do a lot of learning and for that it was great and I think I grew from that like uh like it will test your relationship." Courtney let oh yeah sure a bunch of like fights over the pool heater and over towels and stuff like that and it was really helpful for us to like learn how to deal with conflict and I was like and then we were like this is just a [ __ ] Airbnb why do we care? Uh so but at one point I found I was looking for someone I need to I need to offload this and then uh through Courtney and then through Cassidy uh we met Federico. So, that was that's been my Airbnb journey. Tell me tell me everything I did. Tell me everything I did wrong. >> Pick pick on him. >> Yeah. >> No, listen. Uh >> why Puerto Ricans should not be owners. >> Yeah, exactly. [laughter] >> No, you did a great job. And for me, uh my favorite clients are clients that did it, learned it, and know the pain points and how difficult it is, right? Because I feel that you appreciate what I do even more. um you know it's just a matter of you got to be on top of it. Uh Airbnb as you know a business an industry is becoming more and more professionalized every single time because now you have large property management companies and you have a lot of people investing. You have private equity getting into short rentals. So design is extremely important. The guest experience is extremely important. The pricing, the revenue management, the operations, all of that is really important. And sometimes, you know, it's okay, I found a cleaner, they're doing the job. Changing cleaners is pain in the ass, but sometimes you got to do it right. So, like that's the one thing that we did that you're paying a lot in laundry. Okay, let's fix that because that's like a lot of money is going to laundry every single month. So, let's find cleaners that can do laundry pool and everything like similar price by paying something extra. Um, but overall, I mean, the property's been great. You have great reviews. is just, you know, continue working on the consistency and being on top of it. But that's that's the main thing is there's a lot of Airbnb gurus out there that tell you, "Oh, this is a passive investment. You do this be passive. It's passive if you offload it to someone, otherwise you're going to be involved. You're going to call I'm going to tell you something. I I've been doing this for many years. It's like things are going to happen. Things are going to break like septic tanks, uh, HBO, all of that breaks on a Sunday night. It never it never happens on a Tuesday at 2 p.m. where you can send someone. It's always in the like in Christmas Thanksgiving like we literally send a message to our guest on Thanksgiving to be careful with dumping grease on the drains because is like statistically it's not more one day on a plumbers calls in America is Thanksgiving. >> Fat Americans and their shitty food down the drains every Thanksgiving. We like stuffing fresh potatoes. [laughter] >> Yeah. Other than another message that we send like all of our guests Fourth of July, please don't, you know, use fireworks in house. >> Yeah. Cuz what do you do? Like when you fry a turkey, there's like 10 gallons of oil that have to go somewhere. >> Dude, first of all, don't fry a turkey. >> Oh, you have to, >> dude. Okay. Get wear a hazmat suit. I went to >> You can go down a a rabbit hole on YouTube with videos of >> to one of my or tech house uh for he invited a super cool guy, Oscar. Shout out to Oscar. Um, and he's like, "Oh, we're going to fry a turkey." I was like, "I want to have this American experience." It was raining, brother. And he was like burning hot oil while it was pouring rain. That doesn't sound dumping the thing. I said, "Oscar, brother, uh, we don't need turkey this bad, you know." Anyways, don't fire a turkey. >> Wait, whoa, whoa. How was it? >> It was delicious. >> Okay, there you go. Go. Go, Oscar. Keep Keep risking your life for that turkey >> for the perfect bite. >> Oscar, give me a call. Here's the thing. Uh so so we had cameras in every property right outside which is legal to have cameras outside the per perimeter of the house not inside. That's very important. Um I have with with my team we did uh what is called uh the camera challenge. I like to keep them motivated to kind like tell the cameras what's going on. The amount of things that we see on the camera so people outside it's like you cannot believe it. Uh so yeah it's just like you here's the thing you're dealing with people are on vacations. They're having fun. They're drinking most of the time. Uh and people do stupid things. That's a reality. So yeah, like things break people, you know, people are in a new environment. Yeah, I had um ring camera videos of people naked that you know, we deleted them, but um you know, it's just like they they know the camera is there and they're walking naked or stuff like that. Um you know what it was really weird like a interesting story. We were in we went to do to check the house and all the um the art that was on the wall was like turned around and it was like on all over the house. >> Huh. >> And like what the hell is this? They didn't want to recognize the hearts because they were shooting porn, bro. >> Wow. >> Yeah. And then my neighbors might like have this like really Catholic neighbor like it's like there's this young lady and this gentleman and they were just like taking naked pictures all the time and I was like really Willie >> you shouldn't look into my property. >> Oh, Willie Willie knows what's going on. >> Oh, Willie knows. >> Shout out to Willie. >> Um yeah. >> Did you find the video? >> No, I didn't. I should have looked for it. How the hell do you find one video in like the millions of porn videos that exist in the world? >> You can't hiding in some Only Fans. >> Yeah, exactly. >> You know, so tell me a little bit about how how it works when you onboard a client. Um what's the process to decide? How do you vet, you know, are these people people I want to work with? Is this property to the level that I want to work with? Um do you fly in? do you, you know, on like do you have to personally look at the property and personally uh interview the staff that are going to have working like how hands-on how is that whole process of onboarding? >> Yeah. So, it's interesting because I developed my model to be remote but still visit the properties um but I have a whole system developed where the the first is the first interview, right? It's like where you at with your property, right? What what are the pain points? What's going on? let me let me understand what your property what's happening with you and your investments and let me see if we're a good fit for you and you're a good fit for us like is this a property that fit in our portfolio and then can I bring value to you because if you tell me hey I want a property manager but I want to keep messaging my guests and talking to the cleaners and then you don't need a property manager and it's just going to be difficult because you're going to be in the way and it's going to be difficult for everybody um and I feel like you're paying for something you're doing yourself. So the idea is if if you if if I hire you, you essentially want me to be out of the picture. You're you're you say, I'm I I'm taking the reigns and you just have to trust that I'm going to deal with everything. >> Yeah. And there are certain things that we still have the property owners to do like for example, we ask the property owners to still keep their accounts or any recurrent services, pay their taxes. Um you know, there are a few small things that they keep. We can manage like the longer contact but they can't has to be on your name or the trash pickup. Um but you can we can help you finding vendors and stuff like that. But um yeah the idea is that you know we handle the main thing which is guest communication maintenance cleaners pricing cameras the listing um the distribution the contact with Airbnb if there's a problem we handle all that. Um so yeah in that interview process it's like understand where you're at how you fit in our you know portfolio how do we fit in your life as a solution and um kind like also seeing if you know what is the property doing and how much more we can bring as well because I want my search to pay for itself. Um so it's like okay let's see how you've been performing and do we have room to grow right if that's what you're looking for. Um, I mean some people, you know, they're like, I just want to take it off my plate. I'm happy to pay whatever it takes. Uh, and other people are like, "Show me how much we can make and, you know, we can do the analysis and get some projections based on um that market data and and our historical performances." So after that, the on boarding is I send a form that we need information about the property, the login, and then if you have cleaners, we work with the cleaners already that you have to see if they fit in our the way that we work because we have a lot of systems. We have an app that they have to use to receive the schedules where automatically when we have a booking, they get a notification. If it cancels, they get a notification. They go to clean, they have to get take photos that we require every single time. So if the client like no, we don't take photos or no, I don't want to use that app. It's like, okay, I'm going to find a new cleaner. Um, and then so so in Austin, for example, we have a a clean company uh that is a friend of mine. She's also operator, so I trust her and she she's really great to work with. So that was a great fit. Um, so yeah, once we had the login and everything, we plug our system. So we start working on the guest communication. We change kind of like automated messages, checking process where we send a form that guest had to go through a verification process, sign a rental agreement. Uh, we installed a new lock that we use in every property. So we changed the the lock. Um, so because a physical key, and we put a smart lock that basically has a unique code for every guest that it creates automatically through our system. Uh so you make make a reservation and with the last four phone numbers of your phone it creates a unique code for the duration of your stay and that's you know extra safety. We can also open remotely. We can check the battery levels of the the lock. We install the cameras. Um so we start doing all that process to bring the property to a an operational standard that we like to to have to make things easier. So, Federico, is it still a good business in the or like I guess it any what price or like at what price do you get to buy a property? So, you um how much do you put down to have the right delta for profit? And so, what's the profit margin? Uh is it still there? Is it still a good investment? Because property prices are pretty high. Uh, so I feel like to make it profitable, you have to put a lot of money down and I'm just not sure if that money is better spent in some other type of investment. So if if somebody's looking and hearing about this, hey, I want to try an Airbnb. Um, you know, what are they looking at the time of buying a property and can they get any um, you know, consultation around that time to make sure that they buy the right property? I love that question and I want I want to deep dive a little deeper into different things because we are talking about profit margin which is extremely important and you know to do a quick answer is you're look you want to look at at a 15% cash on cash return um that's like a good property uh a good investment and as I mentioned before like since every is getting more professional you need to invest in amenities quality location so it's becoming a little bit harder to find those properties. So, you need to put more money not only into the down payment on your mortgage, but also into putting the hot tub, you know, getting a property, maybe a lakefront property in location. Um, so you want to invest on that, right? But then the other question is what is your goal with that investment? Are you looking for just max profit? Are you looking for appraisal of a property, a real estate deal? Because that also is going to change where do you put your money into renovations? because a lot of the amenities you may add into an Airbnb but not raise the appraisal of a property compared to maybe like renovating a bathroom gives you the lower um ROI in terms of like average nightly rate but it gives you the highest maybe one high for um um an appraisal if you want to do a cash refi. But then the other question is what is your goal with investment? I have a lot of, you know, talking to your audience, I have a lot of clients that have high paying W2 jobs and a lot of the investments that they're doing are for tax benefits. So, I'm going to ask you something. Are you familiar with the uh STR loophole or accelerated depreciation? >> I I've heard about it. I have not I have not implemented it. I talked to my um tax advisor and I'll leave. >> Your tax advisor sucks balls. >> Okay. Well, so, so I have not done it, but I am very interested in doing that. >> Educate me on it. What What is it about? What's that? >> So, disclaimer, this is not tax advice. So, >> this is not anything advice on any type of investments. We are idiots. I am an idiot around money. Do not follow any advice I say. Keep going. So the SDR loophole is uh something written in the tax code that basically um and again grab this web page just how I explain it but you know when you're doing your taxes at the end of the year you can you're going to put your assets and the depreciation of the assets are going to go as a loss in your um or a deduction in your tax return. If you have a property that is generating active income and a long-term rental is not active income. passive income like um like a like a stocks but a short rental is considered active income. You can depreciate 17.5 years at once and right now it's at 100% because that percentage kind of like changes how much you can depreciate. So basically instead of like paying I don't know depending on the price of the property and it's a calculation that you need to do which there are different ways to do it. A lot of people hire a company they send an engineer to do it. There are services that you can do online. If the property is less than I think a million or$2 million dollars, you can do it online which you go to a website. It's an app that that you buy and you put like I don't know square footage, material of the floors, the walls and stuff like that. And it's going to make a calculation on the depreciation of the building because basically land doesn't depreciate, right? So the property the value of the property, how much is land, how much is the building? the building appreciates and then out of that you can again depreciate 17.5 years at once. So instead of paying $ 30 $50,000 in taxes, you put the money into buying the short rental and you do depreciation, you have to have a stay before the end of the year and that goes against your taxes. So again, a lot of my clients uh what they do is instead of like paying a lot of taxes, they're buying an asset that is generating income. Maybe the profit margin is not the goal here, but it's just getting an asset with that money that will go to taxes. Um, and it's great. I done it myself with with with some properties. It's it's great. >> Do you ever run into a challenge when you're on boarding a new client? It sounds like the need for flexibility is important. I think about, you know, you're talking about renovating a bathroom versus another area or even with an Airbnb. Um, you know, I could imagine someone saying, "Well, I don't want any pets in my home." What does that look like when you're trying to help explain what the ROI is on short-term rentals? >> I I love that question. And what we do is I want to I want to get you to where you want to be, but at the same time, I understand, and I tell this to my team all the time. We're dealing with two of the uh most important things that people have. Uh I know I like this because I always make this joke. It's like we're not surgeons. We're not dealing with people's lives, but we're dealing with one of the biggest investment that people are making, which is buying a property. So, unless you're buying a private jet, normally a property is one of the most expensive things that you buy. And with our guests, we're dealing with their time. Are we going to refund time? That's literally the most precious thing that someone has. So, it's a big responsibility. I want to advise you, but also understand that again, what is the background of your investment? That's why I asked that in the initial interview. Is this a passion project? Is this what you're going to give to your children when you retire or when you pass? Is this your retirement plan? Is this just a tax benefit? Um, you know, strategy. What is behind this? How much you care about the property? Was this your grandma's property? Or is this a property that you never been at? Like I had clients that are never into the properties. They just bought it with someone, invested, and then gave it to me. So, it's like, what is going on with the property? Where's your, you know, what how comfortable are you with things? and then explaining, okay, if you're having like valuable uh furniture that you love in the property, maybe pet friendly is not the best idea, but pet friendly, this is the ROI. And we do like the first the best way to do it is I show the number one number. So, you know, how much more we make on properties pet friendly or how many more bookies we have or coupon, how much more money we make in pet fees because we just $5 per pet. But also I do a little practice which is going to Airbnb put random dates and you go search let's say Austin right and we search for uh weekend in October and I have a thousand properties and then I say okay let's go and filter with the amenities on Airbnb how many properties do we have that are available and have a hot tub and from a thousand properties go down to 100 properties okay so you're going to be 10% of the market what happens if we do it a hot tub with pets we go to 50 properties. So now you are really niching down into the most desirable amenities because we know that you know people in our age you know kind like generations a lot of like dings uh with pets and they want the hot tub and those are the most preferred amenities and I can and I show like listen this is a property I took for management they didn't have a hot tub they didn't have pets this is what happened after we put pets and hot tub and you can see the difference is incredible right so I always tell my clients it's like I want to help you in your strategy and your goals and I don't want you make spend money in things that are not worth unless you want to do it because you like it and you want to do it. But if you want to know where to put the money into, you know, a return, this is what we're going to do. I'm not going to tell you, hey, paint the wall because it's going to look better in the photos if that's going to bring more bookings in the beginning. Um, because I want to focus on that. It's like what's going to bring you the most bookings, more profit margin. So going back to the to the question says we we have a lot of people here that listen hopefully a lot. I don't know if a lot [laughter] but hopefully some people that have a high W2. Um so can you go over okay like why is in your situation for your particular tax benefit uh Airbnb a good investment or it could be an investment. It could be something you think about. And then yeah, like how how do you look at structuring that loan? Uh how do you look at property taxes? uh so that it all makes sense because I >> can I add something to that question >> because I'm going through this now >> which is you know we're looking at considering buying a home like right now I'm renting so um the property where we lived before is now being rented uh long-term rental and when I come to the bank to talk about my risk profile uh they calculate how many you know lines of credit there is, how many mortgages there is, and how much of that is risk. So, um, actually a home that is rented long-term doesn't become a problem because it's a liability. >> It's paying that mortgage. And so, when they do the risk, they say, "Okay, well, that >> that doesn't account negatively for you." >> Um, so also, would that be a benefit that you get? I don't think so. But uh so is it going to create a risk asset that's not compensated in uh when you when you do the bank adjustments? >> Like does it is it a liability uh or is it an asset if it's a short-term rental? I guess your question >> and that'll be an asset. Um but it has a little higher risk. Um so there are specific loans that are called DSCR loans specific for short-term rentals. I don't know if only short-term rentals, but that that's what you can use for short-term rentals are loans based not on your income, but in the potential of the property to generate revenue. And they use different tools like AirDNA to calculate how much the property could make based on the market projections. But of course, when the property is an investment property, you're going to pay a higher down payment and a higher um interest rate, right? Because that's that's where the risk come into place. Um and and I want to say something um you know Scar and Maddie my partners here in New York they have a social media they are all about buying and and explained a lot the car was and sir and Emily and Cassidy also as well they all talk Cassidy Warren they'll talk about this a lot as well. So great resources to to follow. Um, what I will say when you're looking into the investment is, you know, you have the tax benefit with the depreciation, definitely talk to your CPA and see if it's something that will fit. And you can like talk your CPA can tell you, okay, this is a buy they're looking into to offset this tax liability. So, normally I talk to my my CPA and and he he tells us like, okay, you're looking to buying a property maybe 250 300,000 at least to offset your tax liability for this year. The higher your tax liability, the higher property you want, more expensive property you want to buy. Then you go through the loan process, right? Loan process will be okay. There are a lot of lenders out there that do credit fin um different type of financing. Banks normally just, you know, stick with the regular things. So you may need to go through a lending company that that is familiar with working with short-term rental and different investments. Maybe do hard money as well, which I wouldn't do hard money unless you're doing like a flip. Uh but again the DSCR loans are very common loans for these type of properties because you're going to do a first homeowner like an FHA loan, right? Because that'll be mortgage fraud if you are saying okay this is my first home and then I put on Airbnb. Um so you you're going to pay you got to consider you're going to pay around 10 to 20% on down payment a higher interest rate. Normally right now they're around 8 8 point something. So it's not going to be six like a or seven like a primary home. Um, and then you need to understand location in terms of like regulations. This is extremely important because I see a lot of people making mistakes on this. And you need to understand that, you know, regulations work in different levels because you're going to start with, okay, the state level normally there's no regulations, but you're going to have county level, city level, um, or township depending on your location. And then you're going to have HOAs as well. If you buy on an HOA, maybe your bylaws don't let you have an doper rentals. And I've seen people saying, "Oh, I checked my city. I need to do a permit and I check my, you know, my neighborhood, my zoning." Sometimes it's based on zoning. Um, and then they get into an HOA and HOA bylaws is like, "Hey, you're going to do short rentals." So, you check your your you know, your area of investment and you need to see what's happening with that market as well. And in the beginning, a lot of people look into where all everybody's investing. Scottdale, the Poconos, uh Joshua Tree, and those are saturated markets and there it's really hard to make it because there's something that I love. Are you familiar with survivorship bias? So survivorship bias is um a bias that that that is basically looking at a data but not looking at what didn't pass a filter. And it come from World War II where um the allies were bombing the axis and when the planes were coming back to England to to UK, they were looking at the bullet holes on the planes and saying, "Oh, we need to reinforce where they're getting the bullet holes, right? Like the wings." And then an engineer said, "No, actually, if they're getting the bullet holes there and they're coming back, they can survive. We need to look into whether they're not getting hit because the ones are not coming back are getting hit there, like the engine." And that that is a bias that we tend to do especially with investment which is I'm not looking into the data that didn't pass a filter. So you're looking at a marketing you're looking at these great properties making a lot of money. You're not looking at all the properties that are not making money or didn't survive being live on Airbnb. I had to be shut down because they're not making money. Right. So that's a big mistake that I see people making on Airbnb that are going to this market just because I feel probably making a lot of money. >> F are you working with international properties or are you only managing US-based properties? I do US based. I have one property in in Ontario, my apartment in Wenocides, and a house from my client-in-law in southern Spain. >> And so, do you change your management fees based on the location of the of the property? >> No, we keep it the same. Um, but um >> is does it vary between clients or is that something you would share or is that something that you discuss once you enter an agreement? No, we we charge so so we start at 22% and then if it's a market where we have presence, we may adjust to 20. Um, but if it's a new market, we normally start 22%. And then if you have a really large portfolio, of course, I can, you know, work something out. Uh, and then the other thing I have is my um revenue management service, which is a flat fee that's at 320 a month, and then if you have more properties, it's cheaper. Uh, which is only the revenue management part of it. Um, so that's kind of like my structure and then we have an onboarding fee. But, um, that that's that's got what what I'm trying to do right now with short rental full management is kind of like focusing specific markets right now to grow and have a more more leverage in terms of like vendors, cleaners, and resources. >> Of course. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I guess it it's smarter to say I want to have 20 properties that I can service with the same crew that having 20 properties scattered around the map where I need to have 20 different crews to work with. Right? That that's the that's the idea of it. >> Correct. Um you know you're not you're not a priority. So let's say that you have a cleaning company that you work you're one more client. You're not a priority and I had to adapt to their way of working instead of them adopting to my way of working. If I have if they're servicing five 10 properties of mine, >> they got to do what I said, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Leveraging yourself into that makes absolute sense. So, it it seems to me like for example in Costa Rica, I was mentioning that we we bought a a condo that's being built. So, we got in at a really good price. It's already like the people that got in with me already some of them have sold, >> okay, >> at a premium. Um, and I'm I'm like they asked me, "Do you want to put it on?" And I was like, "I don't I don't feel like I want to like actually make it into a short-term." That was my plan, right? And it's in Hako, which is the easiest beach from Costa Rica. It's well-developed. It's 40 minutes from the airport. Uh, a few good beaches to surf. It's also a little party town, so you know, there's a lot of bachelor parties and [ __ ] happening in that area. So, I think there's a lot of movement. Um, but what happens also is there's some huge property management entities that are local to the area. Um, now I don't know necessarily what the reputation is, but I think it would be hard to your point before if I'm like, "Oh, I like Fed a lot and you know, he looks like a decent guy. I would want to work with him, but he's going to have one client in an area where there's limited resources. um am I better suited to just go with a local guy that probably has more to your point leverage and that's potentially going to add a better service and and for you I think there comes some degree of honesty where you say listen I'm happy to help you as a friend but the reality is I'm focusing here to create my leverage so these scattered places are not necessarily of of my interest >> yeah but how how so >> would you turn down are you going to turn me down dude >> so here's the thing it depends We will need to see what is availability of cleaners and service uh service in the area because we know how to find people in the US. What I can tell you is do a lot of shopping around even with myself to see who's the right fit. The way that some clients are not the right fit for me, I may not be the right fit for certain clients. There there's there's a lot of models you have like your huge So, I'm going to give you a few examples. You you can work with a co-host where you can do it together, right? as a lower fee. You have property management companies are really large and what they do is they take your property and you don't see anything. You don't see any Airbnb messages. You don't have your account. They take the money in a trust account. They deduct expenses and send you the earnings. I have kind of like a blended model because I feel like I grew based on referrals, trust, and transparency. The way that I work is you keep your Airbnb account, you have access, you can see messages if you want to. You get the payouts. I emboss you at the at the end of the month because also that's if you if I take in money as trust account um I should be a real estate agent and I'm not right uh but in a lot of those states to take money on behalf of client I should be um so a lot of people doing property management are doing that I shouldn't if they're not agents or in some places you have to be um a broker but when you do your shopping around you okay maybe the large property because they have control of the market they're complacent and they are not trying to do a better job because they know okay I have a lot of clients and I just like You know, I'm not saying that that's what's going to happen with those companies, but it does I see it happening. You have the bakassas and the evolve companies which they charge a lower fee, but they make you do all the guest communication loans that you can. They make you work with the cleaners and they work out of volume. So, they don't care how many book you have, how much are you charging, it's just like they work at a volume. So it really depends on um what is the right seat for you, what are your priorities and what that company is offering you. And definitely ask ask a lot of questions, interview a bunch of them um and look at the reviews. >> What would be give me the five questions you say you have to do this when you're vetting uh or or top three questions that you need to do as you vet a property manager for Airbnb? because that's that's where I'm going to be here happening in uh probably a six month period. I'm gonna have to go and do this work and and some questions that can help me. >> Yeah, I will say number one, what is the scope of responsibilities of the owner versus the property management company? Number two, what is what is your what are your reviews in Airbnb? Number three is how do you handle all of the expenses? Because for example, what I as I mentioned my transparency is like what I like look as you're paying the cleaners you're going to see the receipt and I'm marking up your cleaning fee right and I'm making money out of that or I said handyman same thing some property management companies may do that maybe it's in their agreement that they charge whatever they want but look into how they're handling that to make sure they're not overpaying for things. Um and the other thing is like show me the performance of your property. How much do your properties make compared to the competition, right? Uh to kind of like show you that that they're they're at least a market level or above. >> Do you think how many properties they handle is a is an important question? Like if somebody says I handle 50, I'm like, eh, I don't know. Maybe the sweet spot's 15, right? Like is that a number that makes sense to you? >> I manage 84 and and I'm going to tell you something. 70% of our properties are get fur. That's huge. I'm actually on Monday I'm flying. Yeah. In two days. I'm flying to Airbnb headquarters. They're doing their first summit with property managers ever. 200 invite people invited. I'm going there and from those 200 they invited me to be one of the three speakers to talk to their finance team and they wanted like a blend of different type of property managers with great quality. And my man market manager was like 70% of your properties are get fed. That's huge. So even though we're not in in the other properties, we still maintain a high quality level where again that's a huge number. 70% of the 84 properties get fed. Get fair is a batch that they give you on Airbnb on top of superhost. So a lot of people are familiar with superhost which is uh you know if you keep like certain rate uh KPIs like 4.8 points in reviews and low cancellation and number of nights sold a month you get super host. that got like lost value because everybody was super host. So now they added the get fairy which is like the best properties on Airbnb and on top of that they have something as if you're in the top one five or 10% of the whole Airbnb um network and we have a few properties are top one five and 10%. So that's that speaks our quality right and again I mean no be going physically to a property single time to inspect but we have the systems the processes and then the customer service because you know I get I I I'm very passionate about talking the investment talking about revenue management making profit but the reason why I got into this and I never want to you know lose focus is the guest experience is the hospitality because we're building we talk about this in the beginning with the note We're making people build memories, helping people build memories. Uh people are trusting us with their time. Um I had the most amazing experiences of people leaving me reviews and notes and you know because we want to bomb beyond. And at the end of the day, what people want is just like a safe clean space, a quick response and been taken care of. And when we can go the extra mile, we're going to go the extra mile. >> Well, Fed, listen, we asked for an hour. It's been a little bit more. You've been very gracious. Uh this has been this has been amazing. Super educational, timely for me. Um and uh I'm I'm well, by the way, I'm I'm taking some of these uh loan offers now that I'm kneede with the banks. I'm going to ask the banker, do they have some options for investment properties and stuff like that? Uh so anyway, I appreciate your time and that that's been that's been great. Thank you very much for for all your help. >> Yeah, Fia, thank you so much. Thank you for saving my Airbnb and uh yeah and uh yeah, we'll we'll see. We'll I'm sure we'll have you again. >> Yeah. No, it'll be my pleasure. Thank you so much, guys. And I'm I know lenders. I know CP. I know everybody that you need to have in your in your back pocket for short rentals. So, send me a message. I'll connect you with >> I'm going to be texting you. Yeah. Absolutely. >> Okay. I'll reach out for that, brother. >> Thank you very much. >> Thank you guys. >> [music]