[Host] Hello, hello and welcome to another episode of The Wanderlust Wealth Show. Today we have Federico, who is from Argentina and actually started managing STRs from 5,000 freaking miles away. And then he moved to America and grew two management companies to over 50 properties, which is absolutely insane, and I cannot wait to get into your story. Welcome to the show Federico.

[Guest] Thank you Olivia, I'm so excited to be here and yeah, that's been a crazy journey, so happy to share a little bit about that.

[Host] I know, and I'm also just excited to hear more about Argentina too because I'm going there in like two months, which I'm so excited about.

[Guest] I know. You're going to have such a great time. You're going to be in the best time of the year so.

[Host] Oh, I am so... Yeah, and because I like going right before the crazy season, so it's like not too hot, not too cold, like fringe season, I was perfect. I'm so excited.

[Guest] Yeah, no, it's it's perfect.

[Host] Um, amazing. Well, Federico, you have such an interesting story and I am so excited to dig into this. So, you know, before building the management companies, before getting into real estate and short-term rentals and all this stuff, who were you? Like, what were you doing in life?

[Guest] Well, I mean, it it's it's um, no, everything's been on travel. So, as you said, we were talking about travel a lot. Um, you know, if I go back to my early years which normally I don't get that those that far far back in, you know, when it's to tell my my story, but I think it's very interesting. When I was like three years old, I found a book in my house, that it was an atlas map that my parents bought in ninety one, I'm from ninety one. Um, when I was little like I I have my my my mom's family didn't travel a lot, my dad's family like, my my grandparents, they travel a lot in the seventies, my dad got to go to China in the nineties for for work, for business. And I would hear about this travel, I was super, super, it was super interesting for me. Um being little, right. I don't when I was like three, four years old, I found this in this atlas map book in my house and I remember opening and and looking at the at the maps and different places around the world. I was just grabbing a pencil and drawing like I want to go to this country and this other country, right. So, I grew up like just dreaming about traveling. But I was living in the bottom of the world. Like you look at the map, Argentina's far from everything. Like literally, flying to America it's 10 hours, flying to Europe is 12 hours. Like it's so far from everything. And it's very expensive to travel.

[Host] I know. Well, that's like I'm doing my birthday there and I'm having like 12 of my friends meet me there and I'm like, I'm so sorry, but also this is going to be amazing.

[Guest] Yeah. No, it's worth the travel. I mean, the good thing is that you don't get jet lagged because it's got like almost the same time zone, but uh, it's a long flight.

[Host] Yeah.

[Guest] Um, but yeah, I mean, you know, that that that that was growing up, I was dreaming about traveling. Uh I got to, I got to go to Europe when I was like 15 to visit a cousin and then but my dream was to one day go go visit New York, right, New York, New York City. Um, finished high school, started like university. I I didn't nothing stick like I tried one like study with uh political science, I didn't like it. I stayed with tourism, then I moved, I moved around, stayed with business administration and then I was like 20 and left the curriculum at one of the large US airlines. Uh just I was walking downtown Buenos Aires, passed through a ticket office, left my my curriculum. The the security guy got it. I I thought he will throw it away. They called me and I studied in the call center, but the interesting thing is that I didn't know, you know, that just getting a call a job in the call center, you get travel benefits. I had no idea.

[Host] Ah.

[Guest] I just needed a job.

[Host] Right.

[Guest] I just needed a job. But, you know, just getting to pick up the phone and do like sales for, for, you know, reservations and stuff, you get the free travel basically. Uh, and that opened the doors for me, you know, to travel around the world.

[Host] Wow, that is freaking huge, especially if you're just like thinking you're going to get a regular job and you're already like planning your vacation and stuff like that. But then you have this job that allows you to do everything that you needed to do.

[Guest] I kid you not, when they told me about the travel benefits, my legs started shaking. Like, I couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe it. It was like, this is the dream. Um, so I was I was in the call center for the first year and you know, just working like doing the shifts on working on 20 days and then getting five days and traveling. And a year later, I got promoted to do training for the international reservation offices. I was traveling for work all around the world. Uh, you know, a lot for Latin America, uh, so Europe, India, Malaysia, a lot to to to to Southeast Asia. Um, the US. And I did that for 10 years, like until COVID hit. Uh, and that's when when everything moved to Zoom and no more travel, things were weird, Argentina had a really long lockdown. And I did some Airbnb at my condo in back in Argentina. I was doing some, you know, renting my spare bedroom to, you know, just to to to um, make some extra cash, uh, in 2017, 2018. Then we did it through for a couple of years. And in 2020, uh, some friend from the airline had some other friends that were doing like some arbitrage of timeshares, which was interesting. He was like, I cancel like 500 listings, arbitraging timeshares, um, I started like a VA, right? It was like, hey, we need some to help us like a little communication, pricing and and calendars and stuff like that. I started doing that. And with another friend, um, he was starting doing arbitrage in in Dallas. I was like, hey, let's do a management company. Let's do it. Um, so we started this first management company. He was getting the leads and the properties. I was doing all the the virtual management. And we grew that up to 70 properties. Yeah. Uh, until like a year ago, we should part of ways. I had wanted to, like, in the meantime, I moved to America, thanks to like my wife, she's Argentinian, but happens to have an American passport thanks to her mom. Started the green card process, it took two years, uh, but got that. We moved to America, started in Texas. And then again, a year ago started this new management company and now I grew up to 65 properties in less than a year. So, it's been wild.

[Host] That's crazy. Also, so I also went through the green card process. So I lived here for, how long? I lived here from 2008 to 2012, no green card, and then we got our green card in 2012. Then I became a citizen in like 2000, no, we got our green card in 2013 and then I became a citizen in 2018.

[Guest] So, you know, you know how hard it is.

[Host] Oh, it's such a, it's a ridiculous process. Oh my gosh. It is crazy. And we, I remember for years, we kept trying to get put into the lottery system and just kept losing out year after year until my dad finally had a connection, so we were able to like start the green card process that way, but it's crazy.

[Guest] I know. I met someone the other day who she just randomly, like literally had no connection to the US, applied for the green card process out of the blue and got it the first time round, which is insane.

[Guest] Some people get lucky. Yeah, I met people who got it through the lottery. Like for us, you know, again it was easier for me being married to to an American, um, by by by birth. But, um, like normally the process I do is normally when like you live outside and the person you're you're married to lives in America. So we had kind of like a weird case, so we had to prove a lot of things and you know, it it was challenging, but we got it. And I remember so it's funny, we got it in, I got my visa approved in October, like they hand me back the passport with the visa to get in into the US, so we were going to move in February. And we're like, yeah, let's stay through December is the World Cup. We want to see Argentina win. We ended up, we ended up winning and that was wild, and we missed it. But it's like, hey no, let's just let's let's go. And in November, we're on a plane to to to Houston. So.

[Host] Oh my gosh, that's too funny. Okay, well so I want to backtrack a little bit. So it's so funny that you talk about how you saw an atlas and that kind of like sparked your desire for travel because I kind of have a similar experience where I remember being really young and I had this encyclopedia and the encyclopedia had everything like it was alphabetical, but each letter would associate with a different country in the world. And I loved that book so much. And I feel like if like some people just from a young age right off the bat, you just are born with a travel bug.

[Guest] Yeah. Yeah, for real.

[Host] I love...

[Guest] Yeah. Yeah.

[Host] You end up going to places that you never thought you will go, right? Like the craziest stuff. Like I went to Chernobyl to the actual like, you know, so...

[Host] Oh my gosh, cool.

[Guest] Yeah, so that that that was wild. You know places like that that you just see them in the movies or you know, hear like, yeah, like we we we've been there and it's it's pretty nice.

[Host] I know, that's like I did an Eastern Europe solo trip for a couple of weeks and went to Kosovo and Serbia and most people are not going to those places.

[Guest] I know. No, that's like that's what we used to go. Like like you said to Europe, well, like it was so cheap, like again, leaving Argentina, it was like, you do this weird situation where we'll get cheap travel, but uh, like our wages were really low, right? So it was really hard to be abroad. So we had to pick like cheap destinations. So we've been to like Belarus and like our honeymoon, we went to uh, Armenia and Georgia and so Azerbaijan and places like that that, you know, was affordable, it's fun, it's nice. So let's go. And that's how we get to travel a lot.

[Host] No, that is so cool. And it's so interesting because you got this job with the travel benefits fits. So I guess while you were working this job for 10 years, did you ever think about doing something else or were you kind of pretty happy and content in the job?

[Guest] No, so, you know, I, I, I come from from from a house where, you know, it was like study, get a job, and, you know, just the the the classic, uh, career, right? Um, and it's funny because right before COVID hit, like it was March 2020, right. So the summer 2019, like in 2019 I started to to to follow some people on YouTube, like talking about financial freedom and stuff like that. And we did a vacation for for the holidays, went to to Cordoba in the middle of Argentina to to the mountains. And I just like, say, hey, I want to read a few books. And I got, uh, Poor Dad, Rich Dad, and you know, those classic books. And I remember reading and I was like, hey, maybe this is not what life is about. I was also a little distressed because like in Argentina, within the company, I had like a ceiling and I was already accomplishing a lot of things. And I wanted to move to the US, right? Um, and this was before, you know, we got married and all that. But right when we got married and before we got married, I tried to get through the company to to relocate to the US. And a lot of people wanted me in the US because I was a really good job as an employee. Um, and when I tried to apply, they said no because I didn't have a college degree. And that was like, you know, a limitation for them to sponsor my visa to move to America. And that was heartbreaking for me. That was like the breaking point for me. It was like, hey dude, okay, it's not going to happen this way, right? Um, and I say, okay, we need to figure something out. And I, I always say I always have like the hustler, you know, spark in me and I I was always looking to sell gigs and sell jobs and stuff like that. Um, you know, and hospitality is something that I experienced myself, again, you know, been to 60 countries, flown over a million miles, I got to travel first class a lot of times. So which you, that's the irony, right? Flying first class and then going to the cheapest hostel in the city.

[Host] It was crazy. I love it. I love it.

[Guest] It was crazy, but I mean, like so many times. Hey, do what you got to do. It was it was a crazy life. It was a great life. I wouldn't change it for anything but, you know, it was what I wanted to do. It's just like everything is a cycle, right? I I'm I made the most of it. I learned so much, extremely grateful. Uh, it was a face and it's done.

[Host] Yeah, and that's the thing. I feel like COVID like created a lot of financial freedom chasers, right? Because it gave everyone the time to take a step back and look around and look at what how their life has been going. And for most people, it's been fine. I know my job was fine. My life was fine. It was all just fine. You know? And I just kept thinking, well, is this it? You know, it gave me the time and the space to think about that. I'm so thankful for that period of time and I think so many people are now because we're, I feel like everyone's back in the hustle, back in the grind and it's so easy to just keep doing the same thing. And COVID kind of gave us that reminder that you need to take a step back. You need to slow down sometimes, reevaluate, look at where your life and your direction is going. Are you going where you want to be going long term?

[Guest] Exactly. I know, and and you know, the the weird thing for me was it was the first time in 10 years I was like spending months in one place. Yeah. Uh, like I'll, I'll be, you know, used to being away from my wife and the pets and all of that. And all of a sudden like we were spending like eight months together, confined in one house. Luckily, I know like for for a lot of couples it was really hard. Luckily for us, it strengthened our bond, which was great because we used to be apart a lot of times and now, now of a sudden like we were spending every day together all day, you know? So, so so different, but it was great. Um, and yeah, for me it's like the first time I can do something for an extended period of time because that's what thing you know, when you're traveling, right? When you travel for work, you are missing out on a routine, gym, classes for something and you miss out, you know, weddings, I've missed so many things I missed. But it's also hard. So, um, you get to appreciate that other side as well.

[Host] I know that's like so I had been nomading for the last two years, like pretty much full-time nomad. And I finally purchased my house here in Denver, and I'm just so happy to have stability. I've got my 7 a.m. workout every day. I've got my routine going. And don't get me wrong, I still love to travel and I'm still going to travel quite a bit. But I realized for me, like I just love having my home base and like my people here, I'm not constantly having to make new friends, all of that stuff.

[Guest] Yeah. Yeah. I know, and and you know, I I have to say I'm very grateful that I was able to build a community here. And you know, I would say about before, like Scott and Maddie, and the Carr was a really good friend and they're my community and they're my family now. And we hang out together, we travel together. And so I was able to rebuild that here and say how thankful I am that they, you know, just took me over and I'm part of that group now. And they've been to Argentina with us and it's so funny because we we always make fun how exhausted they were because I took them like every day was like, okay, today we're gonna do these five restaurants. Tomorrow we're gonna do this five restaurants.

[Host] Oh no.

[Guest] The last day we're doing like a 12 course meal and they're like dead, like we can't keep going. Like no guys, this is what we do here. You have to keep it in. Like this is the way we live here. We it's late. Like you know see when when you go to Argentina, it's, New York, they say New York is the city that doesn't sleep. That's uh BS, Buenos Aires is where you're really at. Well, you go and you can find any restaurant open at 2 a.m.

[Host] Which is insane. I'm going to think about that. When you think about that, that's insane. Like that's a little bit crazy.

[Guest] It's crazy. No, it is crazy, but it's the way that it is. But, um, I love the fact that you can, like you can go to a restaurant at any hour and get a steak at like 1 a.m. and it's fantastic.

[Host] I love it. I love that. Oh my gosh. Well, this was awesome. And also, thank you so much for all the Argentina recommendations. I'm so excited.

[Guest] Absolutely. Thank you for having me Olivia. I really appreciate it.

[Host] Awesome. You too. Bye.

[Guest] Bye.

[Host] Thank you so much for listening to Wanderlust Wealth Show. Now, don't forget to follow the podcast or if you're watching this on YouTube, don't forget to subscribe because you are not going to want to miss out on the other episodes that we have coming out for you. Also, a quick little reminder, I have a brand new free training on exactly how you can get started in real estate within the next three months. It's an amazing training for anyone who's in analysis paralysis and doesn't really know where to start but wants to generate more freedom and be able to travel the world, all the things that we are looking for. So make sure you click the link in the show notes or DM me the word hack H. A. C. K. on Instagram and I will send you the link.