[Jasper] What's up everybody. Welcome back to Get Paid for Your Pad. Today we are talking about safety. There's a lot of things that can go wrong in your Airbnb and I got two specialists here on the show today. Mr. Mike Brown and Frederico Zimmerman. They are the founders of Pitstop Home Services and they provide safety inspections for short-term rental hosts. So we'll dive into this uh topic uh pretty deep, but uh let me welcome to the show first Mike and Frederico.

[Frederico] Hey Jasper, how you doing?

[Jasper] Good, good, good.

[Mike] Good to be here.

[Jasper] Thank you.

[Mike] Yeah.

[Jasper] Yeah, good to have you you guys here. Uh, I I know Frederico for a while. He is uh, he works with uh Mr. Steven Suarez, the host of the Let, Let Thrive or is it Let Thrive Live? I I always get Live Let Thrive.

[Frederico] Right, the podcast.

[Jasper] L-L-T. Yeah.

[Frederico] L-L-T, right.

[Jasper] L-L-T, right, Live Let Thrive. Um, and uh Frederico, uh you're also uh uh you also founded Arturos Rentals, right? Uh property management company out of uh was it Houston or is it Dallas?

[Frederico] Dallas.

[Jasper] Dallas.

[Frederico] Dallas, that's right.

[Jasper] Yeah.

[Frederico] Yeah, big volume.

[Jasper] Why don't you yeah, why don't you guys give us a quick background? Frederico, why don't you uh kick it off?

[Frederico] Yeah, absolutely, Jasper. So, as you were mentioning, yeah, we we've been in the industry for a while, uh, in different fronts. From the education and sharing through Live Let Thrive and we have a management company with Steve where we do both uh owning, arbitrage and management for our clients. And, you know, over the years we start noticing that there was uh a necessity for more education and standards on the um, maintenance and safety sections, uh or areas of of of uh short-term rentals, and that's where I joined with Mike Brown, uh my friend here that he's also interested in that part of the business, uh to start this company Pitstop Home Services, um to start providing safety certifications to properties as well as some preventive maintenance. Um, that I'm going to let Mike also give an overview on that. So Mike, if you want to continue a little bit.

[Mike] Yeah, absolutely. Uh, well thanks again Jasper for having us. Um, I'm also here in the Dallas area. Uh, I've been a short-term rental host uh now going on four years. Uh, my wife and I started this business uh right after COVID. Um, so, you know, there were a lot of challenges with people trying to basically survive, you know, with all of the, you know, decreased bookings and canceled bookings and things of that nature. Um, and it really, you know, spurred out of the need for um, at least at the time, you know, our leases didn't overlap and so we started out with using my previous apartment uh as we moved into hers, and it just kind of kicked off from there. And as it's grown and evolved, uh, now we're over 18 properties, uh, both owned, uh leased or arbitrage, and managed. So it's a combination. So we kind of get three different perspectives. Uh and we we started to kind of build on top of that as we start to build out our portfolio, but, um, you know, one of the important things as we're going to talk about today is just understanding the the critical need for more safety, um, protocols and best practices in your short-term rentals, um, that can help, um, cause issues down the line and really being able to have preventive maintenance as well as a part of that. Uh, really just a foundation or structure for any short-term rental. Um, a lot of people focus on, you know, a lot of the amenities and how nice it looks, but underneath that, uh another critical foundation piece is having this top of mind. Um, there's different levels and tiers to it. We'll get a little bit into that as well, but, uh I think we're going to get a lot of information, valuable information, and I think after this podcast, your guests are not going to be able to look at their short-term rentals the same ever again. So.

[Jasper] That's a bold statement.

[Frederico] Yeah, and and that when when we share information it's like, we we we say we don't want to scare anyone, and we don't want you to, you know, to go to sleep thinking that someone is going to get injured or worse in your property, but the reality is that, you know, accidents happen, and the idea is to provide you with all the tools that that you can to prevent that from happening, or if anything happens for your guests to have the tools and resources to limit or mediate any you know, bad outcome that can happen in in the property.

[Jasper] Yeah, you know, when it comes to safety, there's there's what usually happens is something goes terribly wrong and then, you know, people grabs people's attention and then they're like, alright let's let's fix this, right? Um, and so, you know, like I think most hosts are not so not super concerned about a lot of a lot of safety aspects because if nothing's bad ever happened, then you might not even be aware of of uh potential dangers, you know, like things that accidents that can happen. But but you know, just to just to scare the audience a little bit, like why don't you share some of the kind of worst-case scenarios that you guys have have kind of seen in the industry?

[Frederico] Well, uh I mean if if you're on TikTok and on social media, you probably saw that a few weeks ago, there was a big accident in uh the Smokies, um, and we had a there was a deck falling from I think it was like eight feet, uh, because of the hot tub. So the deck was not prepared to to to stand the the the weight and there was a girl in the hot tub, that luckily she didn't die but, you know, she got injured. Um, so and that was very recent. Um, but you know, I can tell you the largest, so I I I always like to talk about this because it's, you know, just to give you some perspective. What is the largest settlement on a short-term rental um lawsuit to a host for an accident. And it was 11.6 million dollars. And here, you know, Airbnb didn't cover anything. Uh, this is something that that, you know, it was the host had to pay and settle this this lawsuit and this was a story. So it happened at Gulf Shores, Alabama where um, it was a house that had an um a pier to to a river and it was shallow water and there was no sign that it was shallow water. So there was a group of friends, one jumped, dive, he he dove into the water, uh head first, uh, broke his neck because it was shallow water. Um, the guy he survived, he ended up with a 12 hours surgery and ended up quadriplegic. Um, so his life was ruined and all because there was no sign of shallow water, don't dive when the owners knew that it was shallow water.

[Jasper] Yeah. Yeah, and the reason I I wanted you guys to share kind of these stories is that this is something that we typically wouldn't think about, right? Like if you if you live in that house and you're used to that water, like it's just kind of, you know, you might not think, you might assume that everybody will know to check the depth of the water before you dive in, right? But, you know, that's not always the case. So, um, so what's, yeah, what can we do as hosts? What can we do to just keep our Airbnbs as as safe as possible?

[Mike] Good question. Mike, do you want to start?

[Mike] Uh yeah, so, you know, one of the things we always talk about uh when we get into this topic is just understanding that there are obviously layers, um, you know, because you can obviously try to foolproof everything, which is nearly impossible. Uh, and so we want to try to find balance, right? Uh, balance between what your risk tolerance is as a short-term rental host. Let's just say if you're first starting out, maybe you're more established, so you maybe have, you know, more to lose, right? Whether it's a larger portfolio, multiple homes, whether you own them, what have you. Um, and then trying to finding a balance between that and also understanding what your budget can can sustain. Um, and and I say that because and I'll give you a couple of comparison going from probably easiest to maybe more challenging if you have an existing property because that's probably the most in most cases, uh, what people are going and retroactively making sure that their properties are safe. So, we can start on the lower end, thinking about small things which are less costly, uh, like for example, ensuring that you have uh carpet grippers, uh, or rug grippers or tape. Uh you know, sometimes over time they curl up on the edge so that could cause a trip hazard. Um, just the fact of installing a smoke detector uh and CO detector in a home. Uh, I was actually very, very surprised uh as I started to, you know, learn about short-term rentals and the process of onboarding and things of that nature, how on many platforms it's not even required for you to have that in the home, which is which is it's outrageous in my opinion. Um, and this is why you hear so many stories of people, you know, not waking up due to fire and having smoke inhalation or smoke damage and things of that nature and not being able to escape, you know, in time, or carbon monoxide poisoning, and so all of that could easily be avoidable by installing, you know, 50 dollar, 40 dollar uh device in the home. Um, in addition to fire extinguishers, whether that's interior near the kitchen, uh, there's obviously a certain placement that that has to be, even exterior. Let's just say if you have a barbecue, uh grill or a fire pit and things of that nature, uh, because you want to be able to have access to these because the thing about is people don't think about these until it actually happens, and in those scenarios, it's either like fight or flight, right? It has to be very clear on how a person needs to be able to get out of that situation, and if it's not clear, well then likely somebody's going to potentially suffer because of that. Um, because that it's a situation is chaotic, right?

[Frederico] And on top of that Mike, if you don't mind? So since you're talking about the fire extinguishers, I'll say, you know, what is the common um place where hosts are placing their fire extinguishers in their property when and and most of the times it's not it's done because it's a city requirement to get a license if you have to to get a license, and they put it under the sink, right? Now, under the sink, there's no signage, so it's hard for for a person during a fire to start searching for a fire extinguisher, opening cabinets. Plus, usually under the sink is very close from the fire source. So are you expecting for people to put their face near the fire just to see if the fire extinguisher is under there or not? People are going to run for their lives. It's not their house, they don't mind it's like, okay, this this place can burn to the ground. I just want to get out of here. So if you place the fire extinguisher with the signage, uh if it's under the sink or ideally, you know, where it has to be which is near an exit point, three to five feet from the ground, uh within three to five, uh with the brackets provided by the manufacturer, that's going to give you more chances for the person uh that is you know, that that that is in in in the place to actually see the fire extinguisher and give it a try and see if he or she can put put off the the fire.

[Jasper] Right.

[Jasper] Right.

[Jasper] Yeah, another example is uh on our property in Idyllwild, I was I was just there a couple days ago, we're doing renovations up there, so it's just kind of walking around the we've got quite a bit of land and it's quite steep and we have a a creek as well. Um, there's lots of trees and it snows in the winter. So there's there's quite a few things that could potentially go wrong. So I was just kind of walking around and thinking like, you know, what are what are the the biggest hazards on on our on our land here? We do have uh one sign that says, you know, walkway slippery when uh when there's snow, right? And I looked at that and I was kind of like, at first I was thinking this is kind of like obvious, right? If if there's snow, it's going to be slippery. It's like, do we really do we really have to warn guests about that? But then I I realized that um because uh you know, my wife has never seen snow in her life, right? And then I realized I was like, oh, but if somebody who's never seen snow, they might actually they might not know that, right? It's obvious to me, but it might not be obvious to to everybody.

[Frederico] Yeah. And and there, that that's a huge one. And part of of of certifying a property is understanding the environment of the property to see things that are particular to that area that you know, they're not general for every property, but are particular again to the environment and the surroundings of the property, which is not in a checklist, but it's something you want to understand and prevent. Uh and again, it's not the same challenges you have in a uh a place where it snows that that in a in a in a water beach destination that you may have in a in an in a city, uh urban area. So that that's for sure. And you know, taking it to the hospitality, hospitable part of of signing and communicating, you know, it's huge to understand that your guest may not know their environment, surroundings, and even things that are found inside the house that are new to them. Coming from abroad and you may understand this Jasper, there are things in America that are not found in other countries, in in in houses in other countries, right? So, you know, G-F-C-I outlets, garbage disposals, dishwashers are not very common in Europe, are not very common in Latin America. And when you have people staying at your properties that are from abroad, if the first time they may see that, and you know, and having the communication ready or instructions for that is how you also enhance your uh hosting experience.

[Jasper] Right.

[Jasper] Right.

[Jasper] Yeah, another example is uh on our property in Idyllwild, I was I was just there a couple days ago, we're doing renovations up there. So it's just kind of walking around the we've got quite a bit of land and it's quite steep and we have a creek as well. Um, there's lots of trees and it snows in the winter, so there's there's quite a few things that could potentially go wrong. So I was just kind of walking around and thinking like, you know, what are what are the the biggest hazards on on our on our land here? We do have uh one sign that says, you know, walkway slippery when uh when there's snow, right? And I looked at that and I was kind of like, at first I was thinking this is kind of like obvious, right? If if there's snow, it's going to be slippery. It's like, do we really do we really have to warn guests about that? But then I I realized that um because uh you know, my wife has never seen snow in her life, right? And then I realized I was like, oh, but if somebody who's never seen snow, they might actually they might not know that, right? It's obvious to me, but it might not be obvious to to everybody.

[Frederico] Yeah, and and there, that that's a huge one. And part of of of certifying a property is understanding the environment of the property to see things that are particular to that area that you know, they're not general for every property, but are particular again to the environment and the surroundings of the property, which is not in a checklist, but it's something you want to understand and prevent. Uh and again, it's not the same challenges you have in a uh a place where it snows that that in a in a in a water beach destination that you may have in a in an in a city, uh urban area. So that that's for sure. And you know, taking it to the hospitality, hospitable part of of signing and communicating, you know, it's huge to understand that your guest may not know their environment, surroundings, and even things that are found inside the house that are new to them. Coming from abroad and you may understand this Jasper, there are things in America that are not found in other countries, in in in houses in other countries, right? So, you know, G-F-C-I outlets, garbage disposals, dishwashers are not very common in Europe, are not very common in Latin America. And when you have people staying at your properties that are from abroad, if the first time they may see that, and you know, and having the communication ready or instructions for that is how you also enhance your uh hosting experience.

[Jasper] Right. Right. And uh you guys, I know you guys are in Dallas. Um, do is it do you just have this service in your market or are you in different areas in the in the United States as well?

[Frederico] We're starting right now in Dallas, but we plan to expand rapidly. So we have contact with other operators, larger operators that are going to be certified to to start providing and partnering with us as well, uh under the same name Pitstop Home Services. And the idea is to to expand this to to the entire nation. Uh, but yeah, we're starting here in in the D-F-W area.

[Jasper] Right.

[Mike] And if there's definitely a need with with someone that has a larger portfolio in a certain area or city, uh we're happy to, you know, do travel to make that happen as well where where it makes sense. So.

[Jasper] Right.

[Jasper] Awesome guys. Uh, we appreciate you guys jumping on here and sharing your wisdom. Um, so again, for the listeners, Pitstop Home Services, if you want to check out the the process and the inspection lists and and all that good stuff, then uh go ahead and check it out. And with that said, uh that's the end of the podcast for today. So again, Mike and Freddy, thank you so much for for being here. And uh, to the listeners, thanks for listening. We'll be back on Friday with another episode. So we'll see you then and have a great week.

[Frederico] Thank you, Jasper.

[Mike] Thank you.