[Voiceover] Welcome to the Patryk Real Estate Show, where we explore the fascinating world of real estate investing with your host, Patryk Swiatek. Patryk is a dynamic young entrepreneur and an accomplished real estate investor who's passionate about helping others achieve financial freedom. Each week, we sit down with some of the most inspiring individuals in the real estate industry and delve into their personal journeys, lessons learned, and secrets to their success. Let's dive into this week's episode.

[Host] Federico, welcome to the Patryk Real Estate Show, man. Short for Fede. I just realized that everyone was calling you Fede, but I was calling you Federico. So, I'm gonna just start calling you Fede. Excited to have you on, man. Fede is somebody in this industry that I had the great pleasure of talking to multiple times and recently we had some very intellectual high-level conversations, high-level strategy conversations when it comes to pricing and listing optimization and just overall management. Fede is an incredible manager and he talks about it a lot and he's got 45 units currently. And I'm just really just excited to dive into some really, I think this is gonna be a very, I think this is gonna be a very technical, it's a very technical conversation. But I definitely want the audience to know a little bit more about you and and your background before we even jump into all of that.

[Guest] Yeah, Patryk, thank you so much for having me here. I've been in the travel industry all my life. I'm 33, since I'm probably 18, I working somehow with the hospitality travel industry and I spent 10 years in the airline industry back in Argentina where I'm from, but I was working with the call centers for the largest airline in the world, doing everything related to customer service and the tariff department, which is pretty close, closely to the revenue management, which is something that I love and we really need in the short term rental industry. So after 10 years, I was playing around with my own extra room in, in my condo back in Argentina to put it on Airbnb in 2017. But during COVID, my job changed the dynamics of traveling a lot. I was staying a lot of, during COVID, I had to stay at home, doing a lot of Zoom calls, but I had a lot of free time. I started helping here like people from Argentina who had properties in the US doing like a, even a VA maybe job. And from there I started my first management company. Grew that to 75 properties and then just parted ways with my partner in good terms, just wanted to take a different direction with the properties that I had and started again in August last year and grew a company to 45 properties now. And yeah, I'm just excited to chat about the, the different strategies and techniques to make that those properties perform great.

[Host] Yeah. Where are you, uh, based out of right now?

[Guest] I'm right now in Fort Worth, Texas.

[Host] Fort Worth, Texas. Got it. Cool. Yeah, let's chop it up, man. So now, what do you do now? You have the 45 properties, you're also an educator in the space. What are you doing now to help educate others on, on these topics?

[Guest] So, I'm sharing in my account, the STR Guide, I have a mentorship program called Compass to Hosting, which is focused for people who want to learn about managing, especially remote management, which is because on my expertise, because I started managing from Argentina, 5,000 miles away from my properties, which requires some processes in place and and some, yeah, SOPs and and systems that you need to rely on to make sure that things run as smoothly when you cannot just jump in the car and drive to the property. So that's a little bit what we focus, but it's very holistic at the same because you will agree with me, when you're managing properties, you need to wear so many hats. From customer experience to understanding the property maintenance, to revenue management, to safety, there's so many things that you need to know and that's what I want to give people. I see a lot of people jumping into the short term rental space and they get a lot of education on the first part of things, which is how to underwrite a property, find a good property, set it up, design it, but then, there's the other half of, okay, how do I make this now make money?

[Host] Yeah, and what's crazy is that's the most, I feel like that's the most important part. That's where I focus my energy as well is yes, you can acquire these units or you can acquire a lot of these stuff, but the management piece is so critical. And I see managers, I take over properties from managers that make, for instance, one client made $12,000 in six months and we made that for him in one month. Just through better pricing, better listing optimization, better everything because the other manager was just not as good. And so taking, seeing that and realizing that not all managers are the same. It's not, especially in this day and age, hiring an incredible manager or being an incredible manager and spending the time to learn these things that we're going to talk about on this podcast is going to be instrumental to your business beyond anything you can imagine. And so I believe in that so heartedly. Yeah.

[Guest] Could couldn't agree more. And and if I can add on on that, I think we're in a business that has a low barrier to entry in the sense that anyone can become a short term rental host, anyone can become a short term rental manager. But that doesn't mean that you're going to be great at it, right? Anyone can call themselves that and just get one client and try to to do it, but actually getting the education and we all have to start somewhere, that's true. But that's the difference when you go with someone that is willing to do it at a lower rate because they're just getting started and someone who already made all the mistakes and learned through the on the way, but already has the experience to provide the best.

[Host] 100%. So, let's get into it, man. I, I want to talk a little bit of game. So right off the bat, if so people that have a short-term rental, right? What are some of the things that you see? Let's just, let's just dissect a whole short-term rental. Let's say somebody says, I'm starting this short-term rental, I want this to be a successful short-term rental. I bought it, I furnished it, I built an incredible property with all the incredible amenities. And they're just like, I want you to take it from here and tell me what to do or walk, let's walk through like your process of you taking that property on, setting it up and everything.

[Guest] Yeah, so once someone reach out to to onboard a property, what I, what I do is I send them an onboarding form that has a lot of questions that they need to fill, right? I try to make it easy, but it's a form that I designed, custom designed to get understand both the owner, the property and their goals. So we do have an initial call after that they have that form. And once we do that, we start setting up the systems. Different aspects here, but the first thing that we want to focus in is how do we position this property to perform the best that it can. And when you have a new property, you need to penetrate the market. That's a reality, right? You got to do a pricing strategy called market penetration. This is the way that I do it. I I need to think, okay, there's a lot of listings maybe, it depends on the market, right? But there's a lot of listings that are already positioned in a market. And Airbnb is always looking for consistency. This is key because for Airbnb, a listing that's been performing well, but it's been around for three, four years is a safer choice than someone new who doesn't know what what they're doing. Because Airbnb is all about PR. And I, I may go, I, I also have the ADHD brain. I was listening to a previous episode, but I want you to think about this. Airbnb has become a brand that represents every host. When you book an Airbnb, you're booking an Airbnb. Different to when you book a hotel through Booking.com. If you book a hotel through Booking.com and you have a bad experience, you may go through booking.com, but you may go directly to the hotel to make your complaint. When you have a bad bad experience on an Airbnb, Airbnb takes the blame and Airbnb takes the PR hit. So Airbnb has to minimize their their risk. That's the way that I see it. So, every change and anything that they do in the platform, any new terms of service updates that they do is to create consistency, avoid cancellations, avoid people checking into properties that are trash, avoid all those type of things that ruins someone's stay. With that thinking, again, when you're listing a new property, Airbnb is going to put you on a trial period to see, okay, are you going to offer a consistent experience or are you just going to cancel the first day because you didn't set up the pricing correctly as soon as you list a property? Again, how do we do them, penetrate the market? If we have a great property, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to close the calendar to two months out. I'm just going to open one to two months. I'm going to offer the 20% discount that Airbnb gives you to offer. That's going to give you a bump on the SEO. And I try to rank as many reviews as I can, as quickly as I can. And I want people to use that 20% discount as soon as I can. I don't want people to use the 20% discount in the, in the holidays. We're in February now. I don't want them to use that in, I don't know, December, the summer, I don't want them to use it on the holidays. I want them to use it now and leave a great review. So I may compromise a little bit of the initial revenue to have that ramp up period because once I do that and I can prove, hey, listen, I'm as good as the other people who've been doing this for a while, then I can start competing and they're going to show me more in the first page of results.

[Host] Do you think the social, So this is, oh, sorry. I thought you were finished.

[Guest] No.

[Host] This is your launch strategy, right? Your launch strategy is to drive as many reviews as possible. I'll add to that. I do the same thing. I think launch is one of the most underrated, overlooked parts of the property. And that you block off the calendars really smart. What I do, another strategy is I just put at the base rate, I think it should be fully optimized and I know what that base rate is more or less and then I'll discount the first month to a month and a half. So that's usually what I'll do. And then on top of that discount, they'll get the 20% if they hit that. But, yeah, that, that's the way I run it. I do like a 20, 25% discount and people book up like flies. It just goes because you also, once you get understand the pricing and and dropping with the lead time, you understand, okay, you're going to get really low booking. However, what this happens, what, what happens is also really interesting, which I think you alluded to, is lower pricing means lower expectations. Because when someone, someone's coming in, they have low expectations, they're saying, okay, I'm going to get $100 a night place and they get a $400 a night place, they're going to be extraordinary happy. Good review, happy guests, they might overlook some of the things that happen when you launch a property that might not go the way you want it.

[Guest] Exactly.

[Host] I, I love that. I love that strategy.

[Guest] Yeah, and time is super important as well. And I I love what you're mentioning about you open the entire calendar. The way that I do it this way is because I operate in multiple markets and sometimes I need to have a learning curve to understand the market. I know you know your market super well. You're the pro, you're the number one in your market. I'm in so many markets that I just want to have a little bit of time to understand, okay, what's the booking window? Is there anything that we're missing? Did we find out about all the reasons why people are traveling? I think that's the other part. A lot of people don't realize how much you learn from the first stays to understand why people are coming to a place. And I'm going to give you an example. I used to manage short-term rental, these were sorry, these were time share arbitrages. That's how I got started on the Airbnb account as a VA. Basically it was through the Walmart network. They have a ton of resorts and basically if you have a time share with them, you can list their inventory anywhere. And there are a few locations like near Napa Valley that you would think super vacation destination for people coming for bachelor parties and stuff like that. But because there's not a lot of housing, we will get a lot of bookings for people coming for business construction in a resort that is mostly for people going on wineries and stuff like that. So once you launch the property, again, if especially if it's a new market, you may realize that people are coming to visit a particular business, a particular hospital that you were not even considering. And that also may change your pricing strategy because maybe your mid weeks you thought it would be one thing and it's another thing, your booking window may change. So there's a lot of learning in those first few days.

[Host] Wow. So you're a believer, those people that say that 80, you should always shoot for 80% occupancy. If you're 100% occupant, that means you're underpriced. Is that true or no?

[Guest] No, it it all depends on again, there, there's so many factors, how and when did you sell it. If you look at only on occupancy, if it's only on an occupancy conversation, you're missing the most important point which is revenue. At the end of the day, I want to see how much revenue you're making. And I have some properties, I own during the slow season, they're only going to make 40% occupancy, but they're making three times more money than any property around them and I'm happy with that. That's what I'm shooting for at the end of the day. I just want to see the money in my client's pocket. I don't want to see, hey, yeah, we had a full calendar but just on only $50 a night. But again, occupancy is a good thermometer to understand how your price compared to your market, to your competition. So you need to understand, okay, am I falling behind or not? Or am I being overbooked? If, if I'm being overbooked, it means, hey, I'm too cheap right now. If I, if I get an 80% occupancy for July, and my competition is at 20, everyone is choosing my first, my property first. Is that because I'm the only and best option out there? Or do I have the room to raise the prices? Especially understanding what is the total market occupancy at the end of because we're thinking always on terms of into the future. I see that the market for July right now is at 20%, and I know the target, that's the other thing, you need to have a target. What is historically the occupancy for July? It's usually 90%. So if I, if I know I can get a 90% and I know my competition is at 20% right now, I should be around 20% for now, right? So it's like looking at those things and understanding how, it is sensing the, the the market. Am I following the trend? Am I falling behind? Or am I just too booked?

[Host] So do you manage the Orange Cadillac?

[Guest] Mm-hmm. Yeah.

[Host] You do.

[Guest] And it's been kicking butts.

[Host] The Orange Cadillac. Um, that's a really good example of one where I'd be interested to hear your strategy on this. We have a couple houses like that too where the comps don't justify what you price it at and how high the prices are coming in at. So, I'm curious with that one, like where at a place where we saw it and we're like, do we raise prices? I don't know. 'cause I don't want to kill it. I don't want to kill the algorithm. I'm really happy with it. It's doing way better than our comps, but at what point, Fede, do you think that you should not raise prices? and it's good, and it's okay and just let it ride, or should we raise prices and see if we can do even better than what we think we can do? But then that might kill the algorithm, right? So,

[Guest] I would do really small changes. Like I I wouldn't do any drastic change that will swing the algorithm. I would start, if you want to raise a little bit like maybe 5, 10, the base price and I'll, I'll look at the, yeah, so I also look at your position and also the click through rate and how many people are clicking on your property because I think that's something that tells you, you know when it comes to conversion, you have different metrics. You have how many times you show up in the first page of results, how many times people are clicking on your listing and how many people are, how many times people are actually booking. So, I think that if you have a high number on first page impressions, but your click through is not very high, is because maybe people are just scared away from your price. They just, they see the listing and they don't even click into the listing because it's out of their budget. If I see that number dropping, we go back and and we keep the price as as it was. But also, we we have a say in in in in Spanish, in soccer, there's the, the, the, the winning team, you don't touch it. So also if you're super happy how how it's doing, maybe it's good to keep it as it is for a while and don't touch anything and just let it run as it is because it's just hitting everything.

[Host] Yeah, that's where we're at. We also have this two-bedroom that does like 150 to 160,000 and it's just like, how? And it's just a two-bedroom. So, so we have these like unicorns, but like, um, in Polish, you said your, um, Spanish saying. In Polish we have a saying called, sometimes when you see shit, you just don't touch it because it's going to smell up the room. It's better to leave it alone. So, it's like sometimes you just don't engage with something, it could be negative or positive. But yeah, it's working, so interesting. So cool. What are some final pricing strategies you can, so maybe some final tips that you can share with the audience before we get into the last three questions?

[Guest] Sure. I I I don't, I think I shared like the the main things, but definitely building that mindset of how, what revenue management is important. And I like to talk about if you're familiar with the survivorship bias. I think this is important when you're looking at comps and when you're looking at other properties are performing and when you invest in short-term rentals and for those who are not so familiar with survivorship bias, it comes from World War II where when planes were coming back from fighting, engineers were looking at the planes and thinking, okay, we need to reinforce the places where the planes that came back from the missions got hit by bullets. But then someone, a Hungarian engineer said, hey, actually we're looking at this backwards because the ones that got hit in the wings, but came back, they can survive those shots. But the ones that are being, they're not coming back is because they're being hit where the ones that are coming back are not being hit, right? The engine and those places. And those are the places that we need to reinforce. And what that explains is how sometimes we look things through a filter and sometimes we look at properties or we look at comps so we're not looking at what are the things that didn't pass or first filter to find that data, right? So I want you to think about that is what are the properties that are performing well? What are the properties that are not performing well that I'm not seeing when it comes to doing the pricing, so I can also consider all of the aspects. And that's something I tried to think a lot when I'm looking at a market or a property and creating my pricing strategy.

[Host] Amazing. I love that. So last three questions, where do you find some a book or some podcast or anything else that inspired you to, I mean anything. It could be anything in life that inspired you to do what you do.

[Guest] Books, so I've been trying to catch up a lot with reading. My friends Matias and Skyler, they started their STR book book club, so definitely trying to read about hospitality and business, podcasts, also trying to find what different or the people on our circle are doing. So you, Ryan, Natalie, Carrie, I can mention a lot of them about what what they're doing. But yeah, that's where I'm getting inspiration. It's just our circle and trying to be surrounded by the the people who are looking to do great things. That's something that just pops me up.

[Host] Perfect. And same with Sean, Airbnb automated. You mentioned his YouTube channel helped a lot. So that's a really great resource. Same goes for me. Cool. So second thing, I'm just going to close it off because we're running already late, but I want to ask, what does the future look like for Fede? What are you looking to do? What are you looking to focus on next couple years or year?

[Guest] So I want to keep growing the management side of things. I want to focus on some markets in the Northeast. So that's something I want to focus, but also keep on boarding properties that, and I'm just looking to work with people who are, who want to provide a great experience and give me the room to provide hospitality. That's what I'm looking for. So I want to just continue to deliver amazing hospitality.

[Host] Incredible. And so for people that want to connect with you, how can they get in contact with you?

[Guest] So STR Guide on Instagram, that's the way the best way to to reach out to me and and find me, send me a DM, have a chat. About inspiration also you were mentioning about books. Can I mention the the best book that I got in in the last few days?

[Host] Oh my god.

[Guest] Because I I got your book, man. And it's I I forgot to bring it here. I have like I have the STR book club but I need to put it here. I have it. I have it at home and it's amazing.

[Host] Oh, awesome, dude. Thank you so much. So the I just launched the wealthy Airbnb super host, and it's on Amazon if anybody wants to buy it. Fede was one of the first people to buy it and give me critique, which matters a lot since Fede is an industry expert. I have a whole chapter on pricing strategy that goes into some of the things, but honestly this podcast went into even more details. So I I really like this. There's definitely some nuggets there that might be a little bit better for some people to understand. Definitely some stuff that we haven't talked about on here, but yeah, thank you for that shout out. But yeah, thank you for hopping on, man, and appreciate you so much and let's keep at it.

[Voiceover] And that's a wrap. Thank you for listening to the Patryk Real Estate Show. If you found this episode helpful, please give us a follow and leave us a five star review. Your support truly means a lot. And connect with Patryk in the show notes below. Until next time.