[Speaker 1] you have over 70 properties that you manage. You've scaled to that in 18 months. You're really like the go-to guy in the industry.
[Speaker 2] ...we're handling two of the most expensive assets that people have in their life.
[Speaker 2] For our clients, we're managing their properties. And for guests, we're dealing with their time, and that's actually the most valuable thing that you have in your life. We don't want to mess that up.
[Speaker 2] Like America holds you accountable. You mess up and you're gonna pay the price. But the reward will be really high.
[Speaker 2] Airbnb is not a hospitality business, it's just a technology business.
[Speaker 1] Are you 100% committed to the Airbnb platform?
[Speaker 2] We recently became partners with Marriott.
[Speaker 1] if someone wanted to start or buy or get into it, what type of property or what type of guest should they be serving?
[NO SPEECH]
[Speaker 1] Is Airbnb dead?
[Speaker 2] I love the question. And I'll say depends. Depends on different on different things. So, how do we define Airbnb? Is Airbnb the platform or are we using Airbnb as a term for short-term rentals? Because I feel it's been evolving. Um, it's been evolving from the original idea of the single host with the extra space in their house, opening the place for, you know, some people coming to town for a few days. Uh, it's just becoming professionalized. And the mom and pop Airbnbs are being pushed away, the cheap Airbnbs or cheap hosts who are trying, you know, just to um, start something quickly, arbitrage, you know, pretty cheap, cash flow quickly, that is really hard thing to do now compared to a couple of years. So the way that I see it is just it's something that's just been so professionalized that in order to not to die within Airbnb, you had to step up to the next level with design, customer service, amenities.
[Speaker 1] So, Airbnb as a platform you think is going to stick around.
[Speaker 2] Yeah.
[Speaker 1] And Airbnb as a concept is going to stick around, short-term rentals, but the game's changed.
[Speaker 2] Yeah, absolutely.
[Speaker 1] And so, I have my ideas on which ones are going to survive. What, what types of Airbnbs do you think are going to survive the, you mentioned the cheap ones are going to be out, all that. So when you're looking forward at, if someone wanted to start or buy or get into it, what type of property or what type of guest should they be serving?
[Speaker 2] Well, um, I mean, you always have different guests that are available on the market, but at the end of the day, um, what what Airbnb is looking for, and all the platforms in general is reliability. So, at the end of the day, the different markets that you can cater to, different markets that have different needs. So, that also choose your play because if you want to go with uh, you know, the cheaper end of the segment in the market, it's gonna be more headaches probably. But it's not that you need to have, you know, all the amenities necessarily to survive, which is kind of opposite of what I was saying. Like there's still gonna be a market. But what you want to have is an operation tied to the property that you manage that lets you to stay for a long time with Airbnb because what you're you're start noticing is that by Airbnb becoming a synonym of short-term rentals, whenever something happens at a short-term rental, Airbnb's stock gets like penalized. So, and all the PR is like terrible because at the end of the day Airbnb is like Booking.com and any other platform, they're just a platform connecting the host and the guest. But they get the hit on PR whenever something happens to a property. So what they're aiming for is holding host accountable by making sure you have good reviews, you don't have people complain about the the amenities or, you know, the maintenance, cleaning. So, to sum it up, you want to have a property that again is unique in terms of design, location, or amenities, but making sure that your operation is nailed down so Airbnb actually lets you continue operating for a long time.
[Speaker 1] Okay, help me understand how's like when wouldn't you create an operation that wouldn't allow you to be on Airbnb?
[Speaker 2] Um, let's say you get, um, and I'm gonna give you an example actually, I had an issue with a with a property which is kind of like the challenges you get as a as a manager is coming to the best solution with with the owner. We have a property, a pretty old property in upstate New York. We had issues with heating. I suggested to replace the entire thing. It was expensive but I said listen, we want to replace it because it's failing and it's gonna bring more problems. No, it's fixed. Guest check in, no heating. Cancel reservation, bad review, send people again. It's fixed. So that happened three times.
[Speaker 1] Yeah.
[Speaker 2] This thing got removed from Airbnb.
[Speaker 1] So the host said so you recommended, hey, you need to replace the heating.
[Speaker 2] Yeah.
[Speaker 1] And they said, we're just going to fix it and then of course, they did it three times, it wasn't fixed every single time and then Airbnb removed their listing from, from Airbnb.
[Speaker 2] Because it was not reliable. People were complaining after checking out. And, yeah, it just got, I don't know how many strikes and like, okay, you're out.
[Speaker 1] And I think heating is like a, it's a life safety component too, so that's that's probably why it's so severe. Would they do that if like your hot tub kept breaking and they kept getting complained, would they remove you because your hot tub's not working?
[Speaker 2] Yeah, because what they're looking at is how many, uh, you know what, when you're leaving a review as a guest, you're going to have the option to report like, you know, like a problem, report an issue, I think it's called. And they have like a number that you can have within, like each quarter before you get a suspension. And after a suspension, you move to, you know, the platform.
[Speaker 1] Okay.
[Speaker 2] So, you can be the platform for different reasons. It could be like a safety reason, it could be like different reasons, but this is like the most common one why people actually, the mic. Uh why people actually get uh, lose their listings and then you need to go and, you know, find maybe Booking.com on Vrbo and Booking.com. But most traffic is on Airbnb right now.
[Speaker 1] And are you basically, are you 100% committed to the Airbnb platform or are you doing other things to be on different platforms?
[Speaker 2] I'm working on diversifying. Um, so our bookings are 85% Airbnb at the moment. I want to bring that down to at least 50%. So, a couple of things that we did is we started with a direct booking website, Google Vacation Rentals, of course Vrbo, and and we recently became partners with Marriott. So Marriott has this platform that's called Homes and Villas by Marriott Bonvoy where they partner with certain operators that you have to you have to meet a criteria, like at least 50 properties, and they audit your entire business. Um, they go through your operations. It takes like a whole month to onboard with them. Uh, but that's been great because now we show up in Marriott. Like any Bonvoy member who wants to use points and don't want to stay in a, don't want to stay in a hotel can stay with us.
[Speaker 1] Yeah. I saw that you actually posted people are booking your properties through Marriott Bonvoy.
[Speaker 2] Yeah.
[Speaker 1] What does that feel like?
[Speaker 2] It's nice. It's nice. I mean, it's just like an achievement of, you know, just being within the network of the largest hospitality brand in the world. It's...
[Speaker 1] Yeah, I I think what you're doing because if nobody's met Federico before or worked with them, you might have a property manager, you might know co-hosts or people and they're, you know, they're involved and they're finding bookings, but maybe maybe they're not making you as much money as you felt like they should be or you might ask them some questions and they don't know the answer. The thing about Federico is, like you know all the back-end stuff. You know how to talk to Airbnb to get reviews removed or promote listings and you're doing things like getting all of your clients listings on Marriott, right? Is any how many other Airbnb hosts or co-hosts or property managers are doing that?
[Speaker 2] Yeah, I would say not too many. Um, so I appreciate that honestly because um, you know the other day I got an email from from a new client, first day that we got and the water heater went down on the first day that we manage and he messaged me after the guest leaving an amazing review like, hey, I appreciate it. Like I wouldn't, I I didn't think that you'll care as much as we did about the property. And that's basically what we're bringing here. It's like, we really care about the property and what I tell to all of my my employees on my team is like listen, we're handling the two the two most expensive assets that people have in their life because for our clients we're managing their properties. And unless you buy like a private jet, normally that's the most expensive thing you'll buy in your lifetime. And for our guests, we're dealing with their time and that's actually the most valuable thing that you have in your life. It's like time. Uh we don't want to mess that up. So I feel a great responsibility for every property and every guest that we deal with. So out of that and my passion for hospitality and systems and the industry itself, I think it's a good combination to, you know, try to go always the extra mile to see, okay, what what what can we do differently.
[Speaker 1] Yeah, you're not just trying to charge a fee and collect a check and and hope that the guests don't complain and but yeah, the fact that you're even recommending replacement and repairs on on properties is is a testament because most property managers, most Airbnbs I think the biggest problem is that the houses get into disrepair and nobody has an eye on it anymore. It's a passive investor with a property manager. Maybe they're bigger and there's just so many things about the property that nobody ever, maybe they mention it, maybe they don't mention it. So I I want to ask about this because the relationship with Airbnb and hosts and Airbnb and guests and then the host guest relationship is a tricky one because of the review system. I was, we were staying at an Airbnb in Scottsdale, the one before this one, um, and I got a message from Airbnb directly that said, 'Hey, we got a complaint about you from a neighbor and they pa- they copied and pasted the exact complaint from the neighbor that said, 'Their music's too loud, the men are screaming, there's a party going on, all this stuff.'' Doesn't sound like you. Exactly, right? And so I I messaged the host and I was like, hey, just so you know, like this is what they sent us and we're we're in bed by, you know, 9 o'clock and up by 4:30. Like, um, I was like, but there was another guest or there was another like there was a band playing, like a jam band. We just thought it was a neighbor and like I didn't think to mention it because it didn't bother us. I was like, I think it was probably like the band playing. And so then they were like, oh, can you tell us which property it was? And then I had to email Airbnb and it's like, I didn't even do anything. Right. So, I looked at that, I was like, man, if I was a guest, if I didn't know the system, if I didn't know Airbnb and I was just staying there and like hanging out and I got a message from Airbnb that I'm about to be taken off the platform, like how does that, how does that promote people wanting to stay on Airbnb?
[Speaker 2] Well, that's a problem and that's why Airbnb ended up so it's funny, I think the problem with Airbnb like many other things is like it's so convenient that people end up using it again. Right. Unless you have a really bad experience, uh, like, you know, going to hotels, it's hard to find a large house if you're staying with a lot of people. But the platform itself, um, has been really challenging because what I discovered over time is that Airbnb is not a hospitality business, it's just a technology business. And I think by um, you know, just going um going public, they just lost a lot of that, um incentive of, you know, keeping like the original idea and now it's more focused on profit. So, all of that is driving it to to, you know, just be always a constant push between hosts who are offering their services on Airbnb and Airbnb always siding with the guests who are the ones paying the bills. Um on their view, right? Uh, so yeah, it's it's gonna continue to to be tricky. Now they change how to challenge a review where there's a link and you go to the link and it's AI, so it gets declined automatically most of the time. Really? Yeah. So, yeah that's the kind of challenges and the other big challenge is like, you know, the way that they handle their customer service is all through BPO, Business Process Outsourcing, which is basically outsourcing in the Philippines and different countries. Um, and I mentioned the Philippines because you can hire people who used to work on Airbnb in the Philippines. Um, but yeah, and you see this lack of consistency of training and you know, and there's also gray areas on how to interpret the policies. So you really need to go and read the policy and quote the policy on the way that you think it applies, and then if they you know, deny your request, go back again, find a different agent. And what I try sometimes is a, go into the Spanish-speaking lines. Sometimes I can, you know, bond with the person on the other side and I find really good success when I go into the Spanish speaking line. But yeah, you need to keep trying and some it's, you know, it's crazy because you're going to find someone's gonna say, yeah, you're right. Why did I have to try like seven times?
[Speaker 1] Yeah, and I think you know, so same thing is like it's gonna be more headaches. The occupancy on the weekends is always 100%. And if you have a good product, definitely you're gonna sell and you can charge a premium because you're the only one of the few properties that lets you stay for one night.
[Speaker 1] That's right.
[Speaker 2] It's, it's supply and demand principles. And so I think what you're...
[Speaker 1] I, I think the thing about living in a, you know, a capitalist country is that a lot of our rules and everything are surrounded about around maintaining and building the the system that we've built of capitalism and what that translates to is that if you can add value into the world, into society, if you can create a business that actually helps people, you will be rewarded. I think that's what you're that's what you're talking about is and it doesn't matter where you came from, who you are, whatever it is. Any anybody can make it. We might all start from a different starting point, right? There's different points that we can all start from, but there's an abundance of information, there's an abundance of opportunities, and it's really about like just picking something and going and doing it and continuing to add value. And I think that's part of the value that you bring is that you truly do care. You have a growth and expansion mindset. You have a hospitality mindset and I think that shows in your ability to take on so many clients and make them a bunch of money. Yeah, and serve their their guests well, serve their properties well and I think the way that you've been approaching it is is phenomenal and I honestly don't think there's really anyone out there doing what you're doing for people because it's really hard. It's really hard to do what you're doing. To run remote properties and make sure that they're maintained and check guests in every day and manage housekeeper. It's a really hard business to be in and maintain the quality and so I think uh, you know, I think what you're doing is incredible and I want nothing but the best success for you and um, I know you got a big goal for this year and and so um I'm sure that there's people out there that are going to continue to support you. So, thank you so much. This has been for your own good.
[Speaker 1] Where uh, where can people get a hold of you, Fede?
[Speaker 2] @STRguide is my handle on Instagram, and then blackbirdhm.com is my management company, so feel welcome to reach out. And sometimes I take a little bit of time to get on my DMs, but I'll get back.
[Speaker 1] Yeah, yeah. And, and I truly do mean this that like if you're struggling with your property, like go contact Fede and get a hold of him, you'll be thankful that you did it sooner rather than later. So, uh as always, thank you so much for being here Fede. We appreciate you so much. Everyone, he's @STRguide on Instagram and Blackbird HM. Yeah. .com is the website. We'll have it in the in the notes and the description. Thank you so much. This has been For Your Own Good.
[NO SPEECH]